



Web Authorization Protocol                                 K. McGuinness
Internet-Draft                                               Independent
Intended status: Experimental                             17 August 2026
Expires: 18 February 2027


                         Mission Work Products
          draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-work-products-latest

Abstract

   Agents produce durable artifacts, files, messages, memory entries,
   queue events, packages, and directory names, that other agents and
   Missions later read.  An artifact can carry knowledge across a
   boundary, but it must not carry authority across with it.  This
   document defines, as an experimental companion to Mission-Bound
   Authorization for OAuth 2.0, how a work product records where it came
   from without becoming a grant.  It states one invariant: no authority
   is acquired by information propagation alone.  It defines a policy-
   free work-product provenance object that attributes an artifact to
   the approved work under which it came into existence, and a non-
   transitive Mission-to-Mission handoff rule: an artifact crossing into
   a receiving Mission is input, and the receiving Mission re-evaluates
   any proposed action under its own Authority Set. Provenance answers
   "under what approved work did this come into existence"; it never
   answers "what may the reader do."

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   The latest revision of this draft can be found at
   https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-bound-authorization/draft-
   mcguinness-oauth-mission-work-products.html.  Status information for
   this document may be found at https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-
   mcguinness-oauth-mission-work-products/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/mcguinness/mission-bound-authorization.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 18 February 2027.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Status: An Experimental Extension
   3.  Relationship to Other Profiles
   4.  Conventions and Terminology
   5.  The Work Product Invariant
   6.  Work Product Provenance
   7.  Non-Transitive Mission-to-Mission Handoff
     7.1.  Contrast with Cross-Domain Projection
   8.  Relationship to the Execution-Time Evidence Continuity
   9.  Work Product Binding
     9.1.  Conceptual Model
     9.2.  The Binding Object
     9.3.  Verification
     9.4.  Guardrails
     9.5.  Out of Scope
   10. Conformance
   11. Security Considerations
   12. Privacy Considerations
   13. IANA Considerations
     13.1.  Media Type Registration
       13.1.1.  application/mission-work-product-binding+jwt
   Acknowledgments
   References
     Normative References
     Informative References
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

   Agentic work at machine speed produces and consumes shared artifacts
   across runtimes and Missions: a file written for a later step, a
   message posted to a channel, an entry added to shared memory, an
   event placed on a queue, a package published to a registry.  Each
   artifact records what some earlier work discovered or decided.  None
   of them is a credential, and none of them may act as one.

   The family already enforces this discipline on the credential plane.
   A continuation handle grants nothing and is not a credential
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-continuation]); an Active
   Mission is not ambient standing authority, so each action is re-
   checked ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-security-model]); revocation
   is possession-independent, so holding a credential is not holding
   authority ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-architecture]).  This
   document extends the same discipline to the artifact plane: an agent
   may inherit another agent's knowledge, and never inherits another
   agent's authority.

   Its place in the family is the artifact-scoped companion to the
   execution-time-evidence continuity of Mission Continuation
   (Section 8).  It defines no new token type, grant type, or endpoint.
   It defines one invariant (Section 5), a provenance object that
   attributes an artifact (Section 6), and the rule that makes the
   invariant hold when an artifact crosses between independent Missions
   (Section 7).

2.  Status: An Experimental Extension

   This document is optional and experimental: adopt it for evaluation,
   not as a stable interface.  No Standards-Track document depends on
   it.

   A Mission Issuer or deployment that does not implement this document
   is a fully conforming issuance-profile deployment
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission]).  Nothing here places a new
   requirement back on the issuance profile, and this document adds no
   constraint to the core's mission_resource_access.  The provenance
   object and the handoff rule are companion mechanisms that a
   deployment adopts where its agents share durable work products.

3.  Relationship to Other Profiles

   This document depends normatively on the issuance profile
   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission] and is not implementable alone.
   It uses Mission, Authority Set, approval event, active, derivation,
   and the subset rule as the issuance profile defines them.

   The invariant of Section 5 is not a new axiom.  It is the artifact-
   plane reading of a claim the issuance profile already makes on the
   credential plane: authority exists only by derivation for a Mission,
   so no possessed thing, credential or artifact, substitutes for the
   Mission's live gate.  Alignment with a forthcoming core Security
   Considerations statement of this property is anticipated; this
   document states the property for work products and imposes nothing
   new on the core.

   Child delegation
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-child-delegation]) is the
   legitimate authority path this document points to: where an agent
   needs authority to act on what it read, it obtains a Child Mission
   bounded by the parent under the subset rule, never authority read off
   the artifact.  Cross-domain projection
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-cross-domain]) is contrasted in
   Section 7: it preserves the same Mission across a trust boundary,
   where this document governs handoffs between independent Missions.
   The architecture ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-architecture])
   promotes the quarantine pattern to a normative cross-Mission handoff
   rule and hosts the conjunctive gating model this document extends.
   The security model ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-security-model])
   catalogs the threat this rule addresses.

4.  Conventions and Terminology

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

   This document uses the terms Mission, Authority Set, approval event,
   active, derivation, and subset rule from
   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission].  It additionally defines:

   Work Product:  A durable, shared artifact an agent produces under a
      Mission: a file, a message, a memory entry, a queue event, a
      package, a directory name, or another artifact a later agent or
      Mission can read.

   Producing Mission:  The Mission under whose approved work a work
      product came into existence.

   Receiving Mission:  A Mission whose agent reads a work product that a
      different Mission produced.

   Work Product Provenance:  The object of Section 6 that attributes a
      work product to its Producing Mission.  It is an attribution
      claim, never an authority claim.

5.  The Work Product Invariant

   This document states one invariant, in normative language so
   conformance to it is testable (Section 10):

   *  No authority is acquired by information propagation alone.

   *  An agent MAY inherit another agent's knowledge.  A consumer MUST
      NOT treat a work product, or its Work Product Provenance object,
      as a grant of the producing agent's authority.

   *  Information MAY cross a boundary without authority crossing with
      it.  A component on that path MUST NOT construe the crossing of
      information as also conferring authority.

   The invariant extends the credential-plane claims of Section 3 to the
   artifact plane; it does not contradict or replace them.  The
   provenance object of Section 6 makes an artifact's origin legible,
   and the handoff rule of Section 7 keeps that origin from becoming a
   grant.

6.  Work Product Provenance

   A work product MAY carry a Work Product Provenance object attributing
   it to the approved work under which it came into existence.  The
   object is a JSON object [RFC8259] with these members and only these:

   mission_id:  REQUIRED.  The Producing Mission.

   deployment_id:  REQUIRED.  The Agent Deployment that produced the
      work product.

   producer:  REQUIRED.  The producing principal or agent under that
      Mission.

   created_at:  REQUIRED.  The production time, as an [RFC3339] date-
      time.

   parent_artifact:  OPTIONAL.  A back-reference to the work product
      this one derived from, forming a provenance chain.

   Where a work product carries a Work Product Provenance object, that
   object MUST be attached by a trusted mediator acting for the
   Producing Mission, such as its Agent Deployment's execution
   environment or the Mission Issuer, from that mediator's own record of
   which Mission's approved work was executing when the artifact was
   produced.  The producing agent MUST NOT self-author or self-assert
   its own Work Product Provenance: an agent attaching its own
   attribution could claim an origin under approved work it never
   executed, an authority-bearing forgery the custody boundary exists to
   prevent.  This is a rule about who may write the object, not about
   what it contains: the object still carries only the five members
   above, and none of them is a permission.

   The object is policy-free by construction: it carries no authority,
   no constraint, no classification, and no permission.  Its sole
   function is to answer one question, "under what approved work did
   this information come into existence," and never the question "what
   may the reader do."  A reader can therefore distinguish a provenance
   claim, "produced by an agent executing Mission M," from an authority
   claim, "Mission M authorized me to do what this proposes," which the
   object never makes.

   The producer member names the producing Mission's principal or agent.
   This differs from the producer of an evidence record elsewhere in the
   suite, which is the principal or component that emitted the record, a
   Mission Issuer, a PDP, a PEP, or an executor
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-audit]).  The two are distinct: this
   object attributes the work product to the Producing Mission, not to
   the component that emitted a record.

   Work Product Provenance is attribution metadata carried with the work
   product, not one of the suite's evidence objects: it records where
   the artifact came from, not what was done.  Where a deployment
   retains it, it is recorded as Mission evidence attributed to the
   Producing Mission, the producer of Mission evidence in the audit
   sense ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-audit]), and disclosed under the
   access rules for that deployment's Mission evidence.  An
   implementation MAY realize it as a discriminated kind on a shared
   evidence structure; this document defines only the members above and
   requires no new media type.

7.  Non-Transitive Mission-to-Mission Handoff

   Attributing a work product does not authorize a reader to act on it.
   The rule that keeps the invariant of Section 5 holding when a work
   product crosses from its Producing Mission into an independent
   Receiving Mission is:

   *  A work product crossing into a Receiving Mission is input, not
      authority.

   *  The Receiving Mission MUST re-evaluate any proposed action under
      its own Authority Set before acting on a work product it reads.

   *  The Producing Mission's authority MUST NOT be treated as
      transferred through the work product by copying, referencing,
      embedding, or communicating it.

   *  Where an agent needs authority to act on what it read, that
      authority MUST be obtained only through the authority plane, a
      Child Mission request bounded by the parent under the subset rule
      ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-child-delegation]) or another
      authorized Mission transition, and MUST NOT be taken from the work
      product.

   The handoff is non-transitive: authority earned by the Producing
   Mission does not accrue to the Receiving Mission because the two
   share an artifact.  The Receiving Mission holds exactly the authority
   its own approval derived, and reading a work product neither widens
   that set nor substitutes for its live gate.

7.1.  Contrast with Cross-Domain Projection

   Cross-domain projection preserves the same Mission across a trust
   boundary: the projected credential carries a subset of one Mission's
   authority into another domain, and the work stays under that one
   Mission ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-cross-domain]).  The
   handoff of this section is different in kind.  It is between
   independent Missions, and the Receiving Mission re-evaluates under
   its own Authority Set rather than continuing the producer's.  A work
   product is not a projection: it moves information, not the Mission.

8.  Relationship to the Execution-Time Evidence Continuity

   Mission Continuation keeps three continuities apart: identity
   continuity, authorization continuity, and execution-time evidence
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-continuation]).  Work provenance
   is the artifact-scoped companion to the third, and does not rename
   it.

   Execution-time evidence answers "what was done": it is action-scoped
   and recorded against the Mission at each continued hop.  Work
   provenance answers "under what approved work did this artifact come
   into existence": it is artifact-scoped and attributed to the
   Producing Mission.  The two sit beside each other.  Evidence ties an
   action back to the Mission that took it; provenance ties an artifact
   back to the Mission that produced it.  Neither answers what a reader
   of the artifact may do; that remains the Receiving Mission's
   Authority Set to decide (Section 7).

9.  Work Product Binding

   A work product MAY additionally carry a Work Product Binding: a
   signed object that proves a Work Product Provenance object
   (Section 6) describes one specific artifact and was attached by a
   trusted mediator, without making that provenance object authority-
   bearing.  The binding is a distinct object beside the provenance
   object.  It adds no member to the provenance object and does not
   modify it: that object still carries only the five members Section 6
   defines.  The binding names the provenance object and the artifact by
   digest, so binding one to the other changes neither.

   The binding is OPTIONAL.  Its absence means only that attribution
   integrity is unproven for an artifact; absence is never a signal that
   authority is present, nor that it is denied.  What a reader may do
   remains the Receiving Mission's Authority Set to decide (Section 7).

9.1.  Conceptual Model

   The binding profiles the subject, digest, and predicate model of
   software supply-chain attestation, in-toto [IN-TOTO] and SLSA [SLSA],
   without adopting its serialization.  The artifact is the subject,
   named by a content digest; the sealed provenance object is the
   predicate, named by its own digest and carried alongside; the trusted
   mediator is the attester.  The envelope is the family's own JWS
   Compact Serialization [RFC7515] idiom, the same signed-JWT form the
   suite uses for signed Security Event Tokens and issuer-signed Mission
   records, rather than a supply-chain attestation format.  A future
   translation shim that emits a byte-compatible in-toto or SLSA
   attestation for supply-chain tooling is possible but out of scope
   here (Section 9.5).

9.2.  The Binding Object

   A Work Product Binding is a JWT [RFC7519] in JWS Compact
   Serialization [RFC7515], signed by the trusted mediator that attached
   the provenance object, an Agent Deployment's execution environment
   (harness) or the Mission Issuer (issuer; Section 6), with that
   mediator's own signing key.  The producing agent MUST NOT sign it: a
   binding an agent signs over its own work is the same self-authored,
   authority-bearing forgery the custody boundary of Section 6 prevents.

   The protected header carries:

   typ:  REQUIRED. mission-work-product-binding+jwt.  Per [RFC7515]
      Section 4.1.9 the value omits the application/ prefix of the media
      type registered in Section 13.  The distinct typ domain-separates
      the binding so a binding digest can never be read as an authority
      artifact: exact validation of the typ, with mutually exclusive
      validation rules for the artifact profiles, implements the
      substitution defense of [RFC8725], Sections 3.11 and 3.12.

   alg:  REQUIRED.  An asymmetric JWS algorithm. none MUST NOT be used.

   kid:  REQUIRED.  A key identifier that selects the signing mediator's
      key within the deployment's published key set.  A relying party
      resolves it by the mediator's role, reusing the family's existing
      role-keyed resolution path ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-audit]):
      the Mission Issuer key through the Authorization Server metadata
      jwks_uri when role is issuer, and the harness signing key
      published in the deployment key set when role is harness.  This
      document defines no new key-resolution path.

   The JWS payload is a JSON object [RFC8259] carrying:

   iss:  REQUIRED.  The Mission Issuer or deployment URL under which the
      key set that publishes the signing mediator's key is discoverable.
      It is the stable, discoverable identifier of that published key
      material, not the mediator's own id.  It binds the object to that
      deployment and is the iss used when recomputing provenance_digest
      below, so that digest reproduces from the recorded object.

   mediator:  REQUIRED.  The trusted mediator that attached the
      provenance object and signed this binding, as the id and role of
      the attacher of Section 6, role being harness (the Agent
      Deployment's execution environment) or issuer (the Mission
      Issuer). mediator.id MUST differ from the provenance object's
      producer; a binding whose mediator names the producing agent is
      that agent self-attaching under another name.

   artifact_digest:  REQUIRED.  The subject. sha-256: followed by the
      unpadded base64url encoding of the SHA-256 [RFC6234] digest of the
      artifact's octets.  The octets are those the artifact is actually
      exchanged as: a file, a message, a memory entry, a queue event, or
      any other opaque content.  How an artifact is serialized to those
      octets is the producer's concern; this document defines no
      artifact serialization and does not canonicalize the artifact.
      The producer and consumer MUST agree on the exact bytes so that
      both compute the same digest.  It is a raw-octet digest under the
      issuance profile's commitment mechanisms, which this document
      imports normatively.

   provenance_digest:  REQUIRED.  The predicate anchor.  It binds the
      sealed provenance object without modifying it.  Compute it with
      the integrity-anchor construction of
      [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission]: build the envelope

      {
        "typ": "mission-work-product-provenance",
        "iss": "<the binding's iss>",
        "value": <the five-member provenance object>
      }

      where value is the provenance object of Section 6 unchanged;
      canonicalize the envelope with JCS [RFC8785]; compute SHA-256
      [RFC6234] over the canonical bytes; and encode as sha-256:
      followed by the unpadded base64url of the digest. mission-work-
      product-provenance is a committed-object typ this document defines
      under the collision-resistant-name rule of
      [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission]; that document defines no
      registry of such values and none is registered here.
      provenance_digest is an envelope anchor under the same commitment
      mechanisms.

   The binding MAY carry other standard JWT [RFC7519] claims, such as
   iat; they do not affect either digest.

9.3.  Verification

   A receiver that holds the artifact, the five-member provenance
   object, and the binding verifies in this order:

   1.  Reject the binding unless its protected typ is mission-work-
       product-binding+jwt.

   2.  Resolve the kid in the key set discoverable at the binding's iss,
       by the mediator.role as above, and verify the JWS signature.
       Reject a binding signed with none or with a symmetric algorithm.

   3.  Confirm the signer is a trusted mediator for this type: the
       mediator member MUST correspond to the key that produced the
       signature, its role MUST be harness or issuer, and mediator.id
       MUST differ from the provenance object's producer.  Reject on any
       mismatch.

   4.  Recompute artifact_digest over the received artifact octets and
       reject unless it matches.  An unrecognized algorithm prefix is
       rejected under the imported unrecognized-prefix rule
       ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission]), never treated as sha-256.

   5.  Recompute provenance_digest over the JCS envelope of the received
       provenance object as above, using the binding's iss, and reject
       unless it matches.  Apply the same unrecognized-prefix rule.

   6.  A binding that verifies proves attribution integrity only.  The
       Receiving Mission MUST STILL re-evaluate any proposed action
       under its own Authority Set (Section 7) before acting.  A
       verified binding is a precondition to trusting the attribution,
       never an input to a permit decision.

   Steps 4 and 5 together bind the attribution to the artifact: the
   artifact is fixed by artifact_digest, and the provenance object
   describing it is fixed by provenance_digest, so under the mediator's
   signature neither can be substituted for the other.

   The binding is registrable Mission evidence under the audit profile's
   evidence-type catalog ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-audit]): the
   canonical bytes are the JWS Compact Serialization as issued, the
   payload-preimage-content-type is application/mission-work-product-
   binding+jwt, and the authoritative producer is the signing mediator,
   its key resolved as in Section 9.2.  The protected typ names the same
   media type, prefix omitted ([RFC7515]).

9.4.  Guardrails

   *  The binding proves attribution integrity, never authority.  A
      content digest narrows what a provenance object can be re-attached
      to; it does not widen what a reader may do.  The invariant of
      Section 5, that information may propagate and authority may not,
      is unchanged: a verified binding is still gated by the Receiving
      Mission's Authority Set (Section 7) and is never a permit input.

   *  The typ domain separation of Section 9.2 keeps a binding digest
      from ever being mistaken for an authority artifact.

   *  The residual and out-of-scope items of Section 11 are unchanged.
      A binding fixes one artifact to one provenance object; it does not
      bound the emergent-authority-through-coordination aggregate, and
      it neither quarantines a work product nor blocks its consumers.

9.5.  Out of Scope

   This document binds one artifact to one sealed provenance object and
   stops there.  The following are deliberately deferred:

   *  A verifiable lineage chain, making parent_artifact (Section 6) a
      digest so a provenance chain is itself tamper-evident, is a
      further change to the sealed object and is left to a later pass.

   *  A native in-toto or SLSA attestation output, a byte-compatible
      translation shim for supply-chain tooling, is future
      interoperability work; this document defines only the family's JWS
      binding.

10.  Conformance

   This section maps the invariant of Section 5 and the handoff rule of
   Section 7 to per-role requirements, so a deployment claiming this
   document is testable against them.

   A mediator that attaches Work Product Provenance (an Agent
   Deployment's execution environment, or the Mission Issuer) MUST:

   *  populate mission_id, deployment_id, and producer from its own
      record of the Mission and Agent Deployment executing when the
      artifact was produced, never from an unauthenticated assertion by
      the producing agent (Section 6);

   *  carry no member beyond the five this document defines, and no
      authority, constraint, classification, or permission in any of
      them (Section 6); and

   *  disclose an attached object under the same access rules as the
      deployment's other Mission evidence (Section 6).

   A producing agent MUST NOT self-author or self-assert its own Work
   Product Provenance (Section 6).

   A Receiving Mission (its agent, harness, or PDP) MUST:

   *  re-evaluate any proposed action against its own Authority Set
      before acting on a work product or the provenance attributed to
      it, regardless of the Producing Mission's approval or lifecycle
      state (Section 7); and

   *  treat a Work Product Provenance object, or its absence, as
      attribution only, and MUST NOT treat either as authority for an
      action (Section 5, Section 7).

   Any party needing authority over a work product's subject matter MUST
   obtain it through the authority plane, a Child Mission request or
   another authorized Mission transition, and MUST NOT derive it from a
   work product or its provenance (Section 7).

11.  Security Considerations

   The invariant of Section 5 is the security property this document
   provides: authority never rides a work product.  The provenance
   object carries no authority by construction, and the handoff rule
   denies any transfer of the Producing Mission's authority through
   copying, referencing, embedding, or communicating an artifact.  An
   agent that reads a work product and proposes an action is gated by
   the Receiving Mission's own Authority Set, so a work product cannot
   be used as a capability.

   One residual is not closed by this document.  Independent Missions,
   each acting within its own bounds, can communicate through shared
   state so that discoveries, credentials, techniques, or intermediate
   results persist across runtimes and Missions, and individually
   acceptable actions compose into behavior no single Mission
   authorized.  The handoff rule prevents any one artifact from
   conferring authority; it does not by itself bound this aggregate
   composition through an unmanaged carrier.  The security model records
   this as the emergent-authority-through- coordination threat
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-security-model]).

   Bounding that aggregate is anticipated defense-in-depth, deferred to
   later companions and not specified here: an issuer-assigned or
   deployment-assigned classification of a shared-state effect; a
   communications and audience envelope for what an agent may write and
   who may read it; lineage-keyed aggregate bounds across a provenance
   chain; and quarantine of a work product with blocking of its
   consumers when the Producing Mission is compromised.  This document
   specifies none of them now.

12.  Privacy Considerations

   Work Product Provenance attributes an artifact to a Mission and to a
   producing principal, so it can reveal the existence of a Mission and
   the identity of an actor to anyone who reads the artifact.  A
   deployment attaches provenance only where attribution is warranted,
   keeps it to the five members this document defines, and discloses it
   under the same access rules as its other Mission evidence.  The
   object is policy-free, so it never carries authority, constraint, or
   classification that could widen what a reader learns.  This document
   adds no anonymous surface.

13.  IANA Considerations

13.1.  Media Type Registration

   IANA is requested to register one media type per [RFC6838].

13.1.1.  application/mission-work-product-binding+jwt

   *  Type name: application

   *  Subtype name: mission-work-product-binding+jwt

   *  Required parameters: none

   *  Optional parameters: none

   *  Encoding considerations: binary; JWS Compact Serialization

   *  Security considerations: see Section 11 and Section 9.4

   *  Interoperability considerations: see this document

   *  Published specification: this document

   *  Applications that use this media type: Mission-Bound Authorization
      deployments that bind Work Product Provenance to an artifact

   *  Fragment identifier considerations: not applicable

   *  Additional information:

      -  Deprecated alias names for this type: none

      -  Magic number(s): none

      -  File extension(s): none

      -  Macintosh file type code(s): none

   *  Person & email address to contact for further information: Karl
      McGuinness public@karlmcguinness.com
      (mailto:public@karlmcguinness.com)

   *  Intended usage: COMMON

   *  Restrictions on usage: none

   *  Author: IETF

   *  Change controller: IETF

   The committed-object typ value mission-work-product-provenance used
   to compute provenance_digest (Section 9.2) is not registered: the
   core specification defines no registry of such values and relies on
   the collision-resistant-name rule
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission]).  This document adds the
   informative in-toto [IN-TOTO] and SLSA [SLSA] references as the
   conceptual model for Section 9.

Acknowledgments

   This document is part of the Mission-Bound Authorization for OAuth
   2.0 set and defines the artifact-plane complement to the credential-
   plane invariants: information may propagate, and authority may not.

References

Normative References

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission-Bound Authorization for OAuth
              2.0", 2026, <https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-bound-
              authorization/draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission.html>.

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC3339]  Klyne, G. and C. Newman, "Date and Time on the Internet:
              Timestamps", RFC 3339, DOI 10.17487/RFC3339, July 2002,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3339>.

   [RFC6234]  Eastlake 3rd, D. and T. Hansen, "US Secure Hash Algorithms
              (SHA and SHA-based HMAC and HKDF)", RFC 6234,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC6234, May 2011,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6234>.

   [RFC6838]  Freed, N., Klensin, J., and T. Hansen, "Media Type
              Specifications and Registration Procedures", BCP 13,
              RFC 6838, DOI 10.17487/RFC6838, January 2013,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6838>.

   [RFC7515]  Jones, M., Bradley, J., and N. Sakimura, "JSON Web
              Signature (JWS)", RFC 7515, DOI 10.17487/RFC7515, May
              2015, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7515>.

   [RFC7519]  Jones, M., Bradley, J., and N. Sakimura, "JSON Web Token
              (JWT)", RFC 7519, DOI 10.17487/RFC7519, May 2015,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7519>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

   [RFC8259]  Bray, T., Ed., "The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data
              Interchange Format", STD 90, RFC 8259,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8259, December 2017,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8259>.

   [RFC8785]  Rundgren, A., Jordan, B., and S. Erdtman, "JSON
              Canonicalization Scheme (JCS)", RFC 8785,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8785, June 2020,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8785>.

Informative References

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-architecture]
              McGuinness, K., "An Architecture for Mission-Bound
              Authorization", 2026, <https://mcguinness.github.io/
              mission-bound-authorization/draft-mcguinness-mission-
              architecture.html>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-audit]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission Transparency: SCITT Registration
              of Mission Evidence", 2026, <https://mcguinness.github.io/
              mission-bound-authorization/draft-mcguinness-mission-
              audit.html>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-security-model]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission-Bound Authorization: Security
              Model and Trusted Base", 2026,
              <https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-bound-authorization/
              draft-mcguinness-mission-security-model.html>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-child-delegation]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission Child Delegation for OAuth 2.0",
              2026, <https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-bound-
              authorization/draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-child-
              delegation.html>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-continuation]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission Continuation: Authorization
              Continuity for Mission-Bound Authorization", 2026,
              <https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-bound-authorization/
              draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-continuation.html>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-cross-domain]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission Cross-Domain Projection for OAuth
              2.0", 2026, <https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-bound-
              authorization/draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-cross-
              domain.html>.

   [IN-TOTO]  Cloud Native Computing Foundation, "in-toto: A Framework
              to Secure the Integrity of the Software Supply Chain",
              2024, <https://in-toto.io/>.

   [RFC8725]  Sheffer, Y., Hardt, D., and M. Jones, "JSON Web Token Best
              Current Practices", BCP 225, RFC 8725,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8725, February 2020,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8725>.

   [SLSA]     Open Source Security Foundation, "Supply-chain Levels for
              Software Artifacts (SLSA)", 2023,
              <https://slsa.dev/spec/>.

Author's Address

   Karl McGuinness
   Independent
   Email: public@karlmcguinness.com
