



Web Authorization Protocol                                 K. McGuinness
Internet-Draft                                               Independent
Intended status: Standards Track                          10 August 2026
Expires: 11 February 2027


                    Mission Expansion for OAuth 2.0
            draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-expansion-latest

Abstract

   Mission-Bound Authorization for OAuth 2.0 commits a Mission's
   authority at a single approval event and defers widening: enlarging
   authority requires a new approval, a successor Mission.  This
   document defines that successor mechanism as an optional, layered
   extension to the issuance profile.  When an action falls outside an
   active Mission's Authority Set but the deployment's governance policy
   permits widening, a client initiates expansion: it submits a new
   Mission Intent through Pushed Authorization Requests, bound to the
   predecessor Mission's grant, and a fresh approval event records a
   successor Mission.  The successor carries a predecessor member on its
   mission claim linking it to the Mission it replaces; on the
   successor's first redemption it activates and the predecessor enters
   a terminal superseded state, so an unredeemed code leaves the
   predecessor active.  Expansion never widens authority without a new
   consent: the successor's authority comes only from its own approval.
   A deployment that never expands a Mission is unaffected by this
   document.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   The latest revision of this draft can be found at
   https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-bound-authorization/draft-
   mcguinness-oauth-mission-expansion.html.  Status information for this
   document may be found at https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-
   mcguinness-oauth-mission-expansion/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/mcguinness/mission-bound-authorization.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 11 February 2027.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
     1.1.  Status: an optional extension
     1.2.  Relationship to the issuance profile
     1.3.  Scope
   2.  Conventions and Terminology
   3.  Expansion Overview
     3.1.  Protocol flow
     3.2.  Eligibility
     3.3.  Expansion is not step-up
   4.  The Expansion Request
     4.1.  Submission via PAR
     4.2.  The Mission Relationship Assertion
       4.2.1.  Sender-constraint
       4.2.2.  AS verification
     4.3.  Binding the request to the predecessor's grant
     4.4.  Predecessor must be active
   5.  Adjudication
     5.1.  Successor expiry
   6.  The Predecessor Mission Reference
   7.  The Superseded Predecessor State
     7.1.  No implicit rollback
   8.  Replacement Expansion
   9.  Concurrent Expansion Reconciliation
   10. Expansion Denial Reasons
   11. Worked Example
   12. Conformance
   13. Security Considerations
     13.1.  Predecessor confusion
     13.2.  Authority comes only from new consent
     13.3.  Race against predecessor lifecycle
     13.4.  Expansion versus step-up
     13.5.  Policy probing
     13.6.  Audit linkage
     13.7.  Relationship assertion theft
   14. Privacy Considerations
     14.1.  Predecessor-chain correlation
     14.2.  Disclosure of the broadened task
   15. IANA Considerations
   Acknowledgments
   References
     Normative References
     Informative References
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

   Mission-Bound Authorization for OAuth 2.0
   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission] (the "issuance profile") makes a
   Mission a first-class OAuth artifact: a structured, human-approved,
   integrity-bound task whose authority bounds and outlives every token
   an agent derives.  It commits the Authority Set once, at the approval
   event, and deliberately defines no mid-stream authorization upgrade.
   As that profile states, widening authority requires a new approval, a
   successor Mission, as specified by this companion profile.

   This document is that successor mechanism.  A task an agent pursues
   does not always stay within the authority approved for it: the agent
   encounters an action the approved Authority Set does not cover, yet
   one the deployment's governance policy would permit under a fresh
   consent.  Expansion is the governed path from that shortfall to a new
   approval.  It does not patch or widen the existing Mission; it
   creates a new Mission, through the issuance profile's own flow,
   linked to the one it replaces.

   The mechanism reuses the issuance profile end to end.  An expansion
   is a new Mission Intent submitted through Pushed Authorization
   Requests ([RFC9126]), bound to the predecessor Mission's grant,
   leading to a fresh approval event
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission]) with its own intent_hash,
   authority_hash, and Mission record.  The successor's authority comes
   only from that approval.  This document adds exactly three things on
   top of the issuance profile: a way to bind an expansion request to
   the predecessor it expands; a predecessor lineage member on the
   resulting Mission; and a terminal superseded predecessor state with
   the reconciliation rules that keep concurrent expansions consistent.

1.1.  Status: an optional extension

   This document is optional.  It is a layered extension to the issuance
   profile, not a change to it.  A deployment that implements
   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission] and never expands a Mission is
   fully conformant to that profile and is unaffected by this document:
   it issues no expansion request, records no predecessor member, and
   never enters the superseded state this document introduces.  The
   issuance profile's lifecycle (active, revoked, expired) is complete
   without expansion; the superseded state defined here (Section 7) is
   relevant only when expansion is used.

   A Mission Issuer claims conformance to this document only when it
   adjudicates expansion; otherwise it remains a plain issuance-profile
   Mission Issuer.  Nothing here places a new requirement back on the
   issuance profile.

1.2.  Relationship to the issuance profile

   This document depends normatively on the issuance profile and is not
   implementable alone.  It reuses, without restating, that profile's
   Mission Intent, submission via PAR, authority derivation, approval
   event with its integrity anchors, Mission record, the mission claim,
   the subset rule, and the lifecycle and issuance gating.  It uses the
   terms Agent (Client), Subject, Approver, Mission Issuer, Mission
   Intent, Authority Set, Mission, and derived token as defined there.

   Where this document refers to "the issuance profile" without a
   section, it means [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission] as a whole.

1.3.  Scope

   This document defines:

   *  the expansion request: how a client initiates a successor Mission
      and how that request is bound to the predecessor's grant
      (Section 4);

   *  the predecessor lineage member on the successor's mission claim
      and Mission record (Section 6);

   *  the terminal superseded predecessor state and its transition
      (Section 7);

   *  replacement expansion as the mode, with branch expansion deferred
      (Section 8);

   *  concurrent-expansion reconciliation, with a closed set of
      reconciliation status codes (Section 9); and

   *  the expansion denial reasons (Section 10).

   This document does NOT define:

   *  a way to widen an existing Mission in place; expansion always
      creates a new Mission;

   *  runtime per-action enforcement or the classification of a denial
      as expansion-eligible; that is the runtime layer's concern
      (Section 3.2, [I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-runtime]);

   *  branch expansion, in which predecessor and successor both remain
      active (Section 8);

   *  multi-hop or cross-domain expansion; an expansion is adjudicated
      by the predecessor's Mission Issuer (its issuer); or

   *  policy-adjudicated expansion within a pre-consented authority
      ceiling; that is progressive authorization, defined by an
      experimental companion
      ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-progressive]).  Under this
      document alone, every expansion is adjudicated by a fresh human
      approval.

2.  Conventions and Terminology

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

   All JSON shown in this document is non-normative and illustrative;
   the member definitions in the surrounding text are authoritative.

   The following terms apply in addition to those inherited from the
   issuance profile (Section 1.2).

   Predecessor Mission:  The active Mission an expansion enlarges.  It
      is the baseline for the successor and is referenced by the
      successor's mission.predecessor member (Section 6).

   Successor Mission:  The Mission a replacement expansion creates
      through a fresh approval event.  It carries its own Authority Set,
      integrity anchors, and mission_id, and a predecessor member
      linking it to the predecessor (Section 6).

   Expansion request:  A Mission Intent submitted via PAR, bound to a
      predecessor Mission's grant, that asks the Mission Issuer to
      adjudicate a successor (Section 4).

3.  Expansion Overview

3.1.  Protocol flow

    Agent (client)               Mission Issuer (AS)
        |                            |
        | denied: action outside     |
        | active Mission's authority |
        |                            |
        | 1. PAR: mission_intent +   | resolve predecessor
        |    predecessor grant -----> | from the grant;
        |    <----- request_uri ----- | gate predecessor active
        |                            |
        | 2. authorization request ->| fresh consent for the
        |                            | broader authority;
        |    <-------- code --------- | predecessor stays active
        |                            |
        | 3. token request --------> | first redemption:
        |    (redeem code)           | -> successor active
        |                            |    -> predecessor
        |                            |       superseded (atomic)
        |    <----- access token ---- | (mission.predecessor set)
        v

   The shape is the issuance profile's own creation flow
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission]), with one addition at step 1:
   the request is bound to the predecessor Mission's grant, so the
   Mission Issuer adjudicates a successor of a specific predecessor
   rather than an unrelated new Mission.  The fresh consent at step 2 is
   what supplies the broader authority; the successor's authority comes
   only from this approval.  Supersession is deferred to step 3: the
   successor activates and the predecessor becomes superseded atomically
   at the first redemption of the successor's authorization code, so an
   unredeemed or expired code leaves the predecessor active (Section 7).

3.2.  Eligibility

   A client initiates expansion after an action is denied because the
   requested authority is outside the active Mission's Authority Set and
   the deployment's governance policy permits widening it.  This
   document does not define how a denial is classified as expansion-
   eligible; that classification belongs to the component that denies
   the action.

   A Mission-aware Resource Server enforces the token's authority
   statelessly and refuses an out-of-bounds action with its usual
   insufficient-authority error ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission]).
   The runtime enforcement profile
   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-runtime] is one source of an expansion-
   eligible denial: in that profile a deny is terminal for the attempted
   action, and the authority-expandable-denial escalation that turns
   such a deny into an expansion is named there as out of scope.  This
   document defines that expansion.  This document does not require any
   particular denial source: a client that knows, by any means, that an
   action needs authority the active Mission lacks MAY initiate
   expansion.  Whether the Mission Issuer adjudicates a successor
   remains its decision (Section 5); an eligible denial is not an
   authorization in favor of expansion.

3.3.  Expansion is not step-up

   Expansion is a governance operation.  It is distinct from
   authentication step-up [RFC9470].  A request denied because an acr or
   amr constraint requires fresh authentication is satisfied by step-up,
   not by expansion: the Authority Set does not change.  A request
   denied because the requested authority is not in the active Mission's
   Authority Set requires expansion: the Authority Set must be enlarged
   through a new approval event.  The two are not interchangeable;
   Section 13.4 treats the security consequence of conflating them.

4.  The Expansion Request

   An expansion request is an ordinary Mission creation request under
   the issuance profile, with one added binding to the predecessor.

4.1.  Submission via PAR

   A client initiates an expansion exactly as it creates any Mission: it
   submits a Mission Intent through a Pushed Authorization Request
   ([RFC9126]) using the mission_intent request parameter, per
   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission].  The Mission Intent describes
   the broadened task: it carries the goal, resources, constraints, and
   controls the successor needs, including the authority the denied
   action required.  The Mission Issuer derives the successor's
   Authority Set from this Intent and bounds it by policy exactly as for
   any Mission; this document adds no authority-derivation rule.

   To mark the request as an expansion, the client additionally supplies
   the predecessor request parameter:

   predecessor:  REQUIRED for an expansion request.  A string.  The
      mission_id of the predecessor Mission the successor expands.  Its
      presence signals that this Mission creation is an expansion and
      names the predecessor whose mission.predecessor lineage member and
      superseded transition the Mission Issuer applies.  It names the
      predecessor for cross-checking and audit; it does not by itself
      select or authorize one (the grant does, Section 4.3).

   predecessor_assertion:  REQUIRED for an expansion request.  A string.
      A Mission relationship assertion (Section 4.2) proving that the
      requester controls the predecessor's grant, without presenting the
      predecessor's refresh token.  The Mission Issuer resolves the
      predecessor from the assertion's mission_id and binds the
      expansion to it (Section 4.3); this value, not predecessor,
      selects the predecessor authoritatively.  A refresh token MUST NOT
      be accepted in this parameter; an AS MUST refuse a
      predecessor_assertion value that does not parse as the assertion
      of Section 4.2 with invalid_request.

   Both parameters are carried through PAR with mission_intent.  Like
   mission_intent, an AS MUST reject a predecessor or
   predecessor_assertion value presented directly on a front-channel
   authorization request rather than through a PAR-issued request_uri
   with invalid_request. predecessor_assertion is short-lived and
   single-use (Section 4.2); it is nonetheless restricted to the PAR
   back channel, consistent with predecessor and mission_intent, so no
   expansion-binding parameter appears on a front channel.

   The predecessor parameter names the predecessor but does not by
   itself authorize expanding it.  Authorization comes from the grant
   binding of Section 4.3: a client MUST NOT be able to expand a Mission
   merely by naming its mission_id.

4.2.  The Mission Relationship Assertion

   A Mission relationship assertion proves that the requester holds the
   predecessor Mission's grant and authorizes one relationship
   operation, without presenting the predecessor's refresh token.  This
   is the predecessor_assertion artifact of Section 4.1.  It is a
   family-native artifact, not a foreign mechanism: it composes the JWT-
   bearer assertion already used to redeem a Mission grant ([RFC7523],
   the Mission Issuance Grant of
   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-issuance-grant]) with the short-
   lived, single-use, sender-constrained discipline the Identity
   Continuation Assertion already applies to a subject token
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-id-continuation-assertion]).  It differs
   from both: unlike a Mission Issuance Grant, the Mission Issuer is the
   verifier, not the signer; unlike a DPoP proof ([RFC9449]), its claims
   name a Mission and an operation, not an HTTP request.

   A Mission relationship assertion is a JWT [RFC7519] signed as a JWS
   [RFC7515] by the requester, using the same key confirmed by the named
   Mission's cnf (below).  Claims:

   iss, sub:  REQUIRED.  Identical values naming the requester: the
      predecessor or parent Mission's recorded client_id, or, where a
      distinct actor is authorized to act for it, that actor's
      identifier under the issuance profile's actor vocabulary
      ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission]).  A self-issued assertion
      sets iss and sub to the same value, as an [RFC7523] client
      assertion does.

   aud:  REQUIRED.  The Mission Issuer's PAR endpoint.  The Mission
      Issuer MUST reject an assertion whose aud does not name it.

   iat, exp:  REQUIRED.  The assertion MUST NOT be valid longer than 300
      seconds (exp minus iat), matching the family's other short-lived
      assertions ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-issuance-grant],
      [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-id-continuation-assertion]).

   jti:  REQUIRED.  Unique per assertion; single-use, checked as
      described below.

   mission_id:  REQUIRED.  The mission_id of the predecessor Mission
      (expansion) or parent Mission (child creation).  This value, not a
      request parameter alongside the assertion, selects the Mission
      authoritatively.

   mission_operation:  REQUIRED.  The relationship operation the
      assertion authorizes: a string from a closed set each consuming
      profile extends by specification, matching the shared
      mission_denial_reason member's extension pattern (Section 10).
      This document defines mission-expansion.  The child delegation
      profile defines mission-child-creation in the same member
      ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-child-delegation]).  A
      Mission Issuer MUST reject an assertion whose mission_operation
      does not match the operation being requested.

   An illustrative decoded assertion, for the worked example's
   predecessor:

   {
     "iss": "s6BhdRkqt3",
     "sub": "s6BhdRkqt3",
     "aud": "https://as.example.com",
     "iat": 1793607000,
     "exp": 1793607180,
     "jti": "rla_4mK7pQ2xV9rT6nL1sB",
     "mission_id": "msn_8RfX2Lqv9TqMv4z7sA2bN1k0YpEdHc9-",
     "mission_operation": "mission-expansion"
   }

4.2.1.  Sender-constraint

   The assertion MUST be sender-constrained to the key confirmed by the
   named Mission's cnf: the sender constraint the issuance profile
   records for the predecessor or parent Mission's refresh token
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission]).  No bearer form of the
   assertion exists; a Mission with no sender-constrained credential to
   bind to has no key to verify against and cannot be expanded through
   this binding, exactly as when it has no refresh token to present
   (Section 4.3).

   The requester proves possession of that key according to the
   mechanism the predecessor's or parent's cnf names, matching the
   issuance profile's DPoP and mTLS conventions:

   *  when cnf carries jkt (DPoP [RFC9449]), the assertion's JOSE header
      MUST embed the confirmed public key as jwk, as an [RFC9449] DPoP
      proof does, and the JWS signature MUST verify under that key; the
      embedded key's thumbprint is the value checked against cnf.jkt
      below;

   *  when cnf carries x5t#S256 (mTLS [RFC8705]), the assertion MUST be
      presented over the mutual-TLS connection whose client certificate
      thumbprint equals cnf.x5t#S256; the connection, not the JWS
      signature, is the possession proof.

   Client authentication at the PAR endpoint and the assertion's sender-
   constraint are independent checks: client authentication (where the
   client is confidential) establishes who is asking; the assertion
   establishes that the requester holds the named Mission's own
   credential.  Neither substitutes for the other, and a public client's
   expansion or child creation rests solely on the latter.

4.2.2.  AS verification

   On receiving a Mission relationship assertion, the Mission Issuer
   MUST, in order, refusing with invalid_grant on any failure below
   unless noted otherwise:

   1.  Parse the assertion as a JWT; a value that does not parse, or is
       a refresh token, MUST be refused with invalid_request
       (Section 4.1).

   2.  Resolve the named Mission from mission_id; an unresolvable
       mission_id MUST be refused with invalid_grant.

   3.  Verify the JWS signature against the key confirmed by that
       Mission's own recorded cnf, per Section 4.2.1.  The Mission named
       in mission_id fixes which Mission's cnf applies; a signature
       valid under a different Mission's key MUST NOT satisfy this
       check.

   4.  Verify aud names this Mission Issuer.

   5.  Verify iat and exp are valid, exp follows iat, the assertion is
       unexpired, and its lifetime does not exceed 300 seconds.

   6.  Verify jti has not been seen for this Mission Issuer; record it
       as seen until exp.  A repeated jti MUST be refused.

   7.  Verify the named Mission is active.

   8.  Verify mission_operation matches the operation requested and that
       the requester (iss/sub) is the party authorized for that
       operation on the named Mission: the Mission's own recorded
       client_id, or an actor the Mission's Authority Set names as
       authorized to act for it.  A requester that is neither MUST be
       refused with invalid_grant.

   Steps 3 through 8 mirror the verification already required of the
   Identity Continuation Assertion's subject token
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-id-continuation-assertion]): signature
   against a confirmed key, audience, lifetime, single-use jti, and
   liveness of the named grant, applied here to a Mission instead of an
   identity-continuation handle.  A Mission Issuer that already
   implements that verification for another assertion in this family
   reuses the same routine.

4.3.  Binding the request to the predecessor's grant

   The issuance profile binds a Mission to the authorization grant the
   Mission Issuer issues, and resolves the Mission from the grant the
   client presents, never from a client-supplied mission_id
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission], grant binding).  An expansion
   request MUST be bound to the predecessor's grant the same way.

   Because expansion runs as an interactive approval event, a PAR
   submission followed by an authorization-code flow (Section 5), the
   binding is established at the PAR submission, a back-channel request.
   The binding procedure is:

   1.  In the same PAR request that carries mission_intent and
       predecessor, the client MUST present a Mission relationship
       assertion naming the predecessor and the mission-expansion
       operation in the predecessor_assertion parameter (Section 4.1,
       Section 4.2).

   2.  The expansion MUST rest on the assertion's sender-constraint
       proof of control over the predecessor's grant (Section 4.2.1),
       required unconditionally of every client.  A confidential client
       additionally authenticates to the PAR endpoint; that
       authentication establishes who is asking and does not substitute
       for the assertion's proof of what they hold (Section 4.2.1).

   3.  The Mission Issuer MUST resolve the predecessor from the
       assertion's mission_id, then verify the assertion per
       Section 4.2.2, which checks the signature against that same
       resolved Mission's own recorded cnf: naming one Mission and
       signing with a different Mission's key MUST NOT satisfy this
       step.

   4.  The Mission Issuer MUST verify that the resolved Mission is the
       Mission named in predecessor.

   PAR permits a public client to submit without client authentication
   ([RFC9126]), so a public client's expansion rests solely on the
   assertion of Section 4.2.  Because that assertion's sender-constraint
   is required of every client, not only a public one, it is an
   eligibility precondition rather than a client-type-dependent rule: a
   predecessor with no sender-constrained credential has no key to
   verify an assertion against and cannot be expanded through this
   binding, whatever kind of client asks (below).

   Establishing the binding at PAR, before the approval event, is
   deliberate: the Mission Issuer resolves the predecessor from a real
   grant and confirms it is active and owned by this client before
   prompting the Approver.  A client that merely names a mission_id it
   does not hold a grant for cannot reach the consent step, so expansion
   cannot be used to drive approval prompts against another party's
   Mission.

   The grant, not the identifier, determines the predecessor.  The
   Mission Issuer MUST refuse an expansion request whose predecessor
   value does not match the Mission resolved from the assertion's
   mission_id, with invalid_grant.  A client that does not hold a grant
   for the named predecessor cannot produce an assertion that verifies
   against its cnf and so cannot expand it.

   Stated as the eligibility rule rather than a consequence: this
   profile's expansion requires a refresh-token-bearing grant, because
   that is where the sender-constraint key the assertion verifies
   against is recorded, and a deployment that issues no refresh token
   for a Mission forgoes it.  Nothing else is lost.  Succession stays
   reachable through a fresh approval, a new Mission whose disclosure
   references the work it continues, since the successor's authority
   comes only from the fresh consent in any case; and the Subject or an
   administrator acts on the predecessor at the management plane
   regardless, whose standing is the authenticated principal, never a
   token's possession ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-status]).
   The grant proof gates the proposal channel (who may put an expansion
   wearing this predecessor's name in front of the Approver, and who may
   trigger the atomic supersession), never the authority: no proof
   failure can widen anything.

   Presenting and verifying the relationship assertion in the PAR
   request observes:

   1.  The assertion's sender-constraint is satisfied per Section 4.2.1;
       no separate DPoP proof or mTLS step applies beyond what that
       section requires.

   2.  The predecessor's refresh token is never presented for this
       binding, so verifying the assertion neither rotates it nor
       consumes the deployment's refresh-token replay-detection budget:
       the assertion has its own single-use jti check (Section 4.2.2),
       entirely separate from the predecessor's own refresh-token
       lifecycle.

   3.  Each expansion presentation MUST be recorded and counted toward
       the deployment's anomaly detection.

   4.  The per-predecessor rate limit (Section 13.5) applies
       unconditionally.

   A stolen bearer predecessor refresh token, on its own, can no longer
   bind an expansion at all: with no refresh token in the request, only
   a party that also holds the predecessor's sender-constraint private
   key can produce a verifying assertion.  The record-and-count rule
   remains useful against a different threat, a stolen sender-constraint
   key producing repeated assertions, or an authenticated client
   behaving anomalously.  The successor's authority still comes only
   from the fresh consent at the approval event, never from authority
   the binding assertion could itself derive.

   This binding requires the predecessor to have a refresh token whose
   cnf key the assertion is verified against.  A Mission issued without
   one (for example an access-token-only grant) has no key to bind an
   assertion to and so cannot be expanded through this binding; a
   deployment that must expand such a Mission defines an alternative
   grant proof by extension, or the task obtains its broadened authority
   as an ordinary new Mission under the issuance profile, linked by the
   successor's related_to member (Section 6) for lineage.

   Because expansion reuses the issuance profile's grant binding, it
   needs no opaque expansion ticket or other new bearer: the predecessor
   is identified and authorized by the grant the client already holds
   for it, and a client cannot name an arbitrary predecessor.

4.4.  Predecessor must be active

   The Mission Issuer MUST resolve the predecessor from the presented
   grant and verify it is in the active state before adjudicating.  An
   expansion request against a predecessor that is not active MUST be
   refused with invalid_grant and a reconciliation status (Section 9):

   *  if the predecessor made a terminal exit from active (it is
      revoked, expired, or already superseded, Section 7), the status is
      predecessor_state_changed;

   *  if the predecessor is in a non-terminal non-active state, for
      example suspended where the Mission Status profile
      [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-status] is deployed, the
      status is predecessor_not_active.

   Issuance gating in the issuance profile already refuses to derive
   from a non-active Mission; this rule extends the same gate to
   adjudicating an expansion of one.

5.  Adjudication

   Adjudication of an expansion is a fresh approval event under the
   issuance profile ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission]).  The Mission
   Issuer runs the approval event as it does for any Mission, with the
   expansion-specific steps noted:

   1.  Resolve the predecessor from the presented grant and verify it is
       the Mission named in predecessor and is active (Section 4.3,
       Section 4.4).

   2.  Derive the successor's Authority Set from the submitted Mission
       Intent and bound it by policy, exactly as for any Mission.  The
       successor's authority is whatever this derivation and the fresh
       consent yield; it is not the predecessor's authority plus a delta
       computed by this document.  A deployment that wants the successor
       to retain the predecessor's authority expresses that authority in
       the expansion Mission Intent so the derivation reproduces it.

   3.  Authenticate the Approver and obtain fresh consent for the
       derived Authority Set, satisfying any controls.acr, and render
       the Subject when the Approver is not the Subject, per the
       issuance profile's approval event.  The consent disclosure MUST
       reflect the successor's authority being adjudicated.  (The
       experimental progressive authorization companion defines a
       policy-adjudicated override of this step for expansions within a
       pre-consented ceiling,
       [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-progressive].)

   4.  Compute the successor's integrity anchors (intent_hash,
       authority_hash) and commit them in the authorization code the
       approval event issues; defer materializing the successor.  On the
       first redemption of that authorization code (the successor's
       grant), create the successor Mission record in the active state,
       with its predecessor member set (Section 6), atomically with the
       predecessor's transition to superseded (Section 7).  Until that
       redemption the predecessor remains active; an authorization code
       that is never redeemed or that expires creates no successor and
       leaves the predecessor active.

   The expansion is governed by the consent obtained at step 3.
   Expansion never widens authority without a new consent: if the
   Approver declines, no successor is created and the predecessor is
   untouched (Section 10).

   Supersession is a terminal exit from active, so it is a terminal
   cascade trigger for the predecessor's entire delegation tree under
   the child-delegation profile
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-child-delegation]).  When the
   predecessor has non-terminal Child Missions, the expansion consent
   disclosure SHOULD surface that fact as a material notice: at minimum
   the count of live Child Missions and that supersession terminates
   them.  A child still needed after the expansion is re-created under
   the successor through ordinary child creation, in generation order.
   A deployment MAY additionally support an expansion-request parameter
   by which the client asks the Mission Issuer to refuse the expansion
   while live Child Missions exist.

5.1.  Successor expiry

   The successor's expires_at MUST NOT exceed the predecessor's
   expires_at unless the Mission Issuer's policy explicitly permits
   extension and the extension is disclosed to the Approver at the
   expansion consent event.  Expansion is an authority-addition
   mechanism, not a lifetime-extension mechanism.  The issuance profile
   caps every derived credential's exp at the Mission's expires_at; a
   successor that silently outlived its predecessor would let expansion
   launder a longer-lived Mission past the originally approved horizon.

6.  The Predecessor Mission Reference

   The successor records a lineage link to the predecessor as a
   predecessor member, both on the successor's mission claim and on the
   successor's Mission record.

   The issuance profile's mission claim is an open object: additional
   members MAY appear alongside id, issuer, and authority_hash, each
   defined by the profile that introduces it, and a consumer MUST ignore
   members it does not understand and MUST NOT use any additional member
   to grant or widen authority ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission]).
   This document introduces one such member:

   predecessor:  REQUIRED on a successor Mission; absent otherwise.  A
      string.  The mission_id of the Mission this Mission succeeded by
      expansion.  Present on every Mission created by expansion and
      absent on a Mission that was not created by expansion.  It links
      the successor to the Mission it replaced so that the expansion
      chain is observable in audit.

   The same predecessor value is recorded on the successor's immutable
   Mission record so that the lineage is durable independently of any
   derived token.

   This document defines two further lineage members:

   related_to:  OPTIONAL.  A string.  The mission_id of a Mission this
      Mission is related to by lineage without superseding it, used for
      a non-superseding link such as a branch (Section 8).  Unlike
      predecessor, its presence does not imply that the referenced
      Mission was superseded and it carries no lifecycle consequence.

   successor:  OPTIONAL.  A string.  The mission_id of the successor
      that superseded this Mission by expansion, recorded on the
      superseded predecessor's Mission record at supersession
      (Section 7).  It is the reverse of the successor's predecessor
      link, letting a consumer that holds a superseded predecessor
      discover its successor directly.  The Status profile surfaces it
      in the status response
      ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-status]) and the Signals
      profile in the superseded lifecycle event
      ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-signals]).

   predecessor, related_to, and successor are lineage and audit context
   only.  Consistent with the issuance profile's open-mission-claim
   rule, each of them MUST NOT grant or widen authority, and a consumer
   that does not understand one MUST ignore it.  The successor's
   authority comes only from its own authority_hash, never from its
   predecessor.

   predecessor, related_to, and successor are each a bare Mission
   Identifier string, not an object like the parent member of a Child
   Mission ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-child-delegation]):
   same-issuer succession needs only the identifier to resolve the
   linked Mission at the shared issuer, whereas parentage carries
   cascade semantics and cross-object integrity that require a
   structured member.

   Properties:

   *  *Cardinality.* A successor has at most one predecessor.  An
      expansion chain is expressed by walking predecessor links from a
      successor back toward the original Mission.

   *  *Immutability.* predecessor is set at the successor's approval
      event and MUST NOT change thereafter.  The Mission record is
      immutable except for its state and the one-time successor link a
      supersession sets on the predecessor (Section 7).

   *  *Origin.* The predecessor and successor share an issuer: an
      expansion is adjudicated by the predecessor's Mission Issuer.  A
      consumer correlating a chain resolves each link at that issuer.

   Example successor mission claim on a derived token (non-normative;
   other token claims omitted):

   {
     "mission": {
       "id": "msn_2Yt7Qv9LqMv4z7sA2bN1k0YpEdHc9RfX",
       "issuer": "https://as.example.com",
       "authority_hash":
         "sha-256:Td9bM7sX1cF8gH2vJ4kE5pNQl3KvZ4mP5x0wQrR6tY2",
       "predecessor": "msn_8RfX2Lqv9TqMv4z7sA2bN1k0YpEdHc9-"
     }
   }

7.  The Superseded Predecessor State

   This document adds one terminal state to the issuance profile's
   lifecycle, used only by expansion:

   superseded:  A predecessor Mission that a successor has replaced
      through a replacement expansion.  Terminal and non-active.

   A deployment that never expands a Mission never produces this state;
   the issuance profile's active/revoked/expired lifecycle is unchanged
   for it.  The transition is:

          +========+==============================+============+
          | From   | Event                        | To         |
          +========+==============================+============+
          | active | successor activates on first | superseded |
          |        | redemption of its grant      |            |
          +--------+------------------------------+------------+

                                 Table 1

   The transition has these requirements:

   *  *Atomic with successor activation at first redemption.* The
      successor activates, and the predecessor enters superseded, in one
      atomic operation at the first redemption of the successor's
      authorization code (its grant), not at the approval event
      (Section 5).  In that same operation the Mission Issuer sets the
      predecessor's successor member to the successor's mission_id
      (Section 6).  Until that redemption the predecessor remains
      active.

      -  An authorization code that is never redeemed or that expires
         activates no successor and leaves the predecessor active, so an
         unredeemed or expired code never strands the task's authority
         nor cascade-terminates the predecessor's Child Missions.

      -  If the atomic operation fails, the predecessor remains active
         and no successor record exists.  The Mission Issuer MUST NOT
         produce a partial successor or a predecessor left in an
         indeterminate state.

   *  *Non-active: no further derivation.* A superseded Mission is not
      active, so the issuance profile's issuance gating refuses to
      derive any new token, refresh, token exchange, or cross-domain
      grant under it: derivation proceeds only from an active Mission
      ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission]).  New authority for the
      task flows through the successor.

   *  *Already-issued predecessor tokens.* Tokens already derived under
      the predecessor before it was superseded remain valid until their
      own exp, exactly as in the issuance profile's revocation model:
      superseding a Mission stops new derivation; it does not
      retroactively invalidate access tokens already issued.

      -  These tokens MUST NOT be silently rebound to the successor.
         Authority under the successor is obtained only by deriving from
         the successor's grant, which is a new derivation governed by
         the successor's Authority Set.

      -  A deployment that needs a lower cutoff latency on the
         predecessor's outstanding tokens SHOULD use short token
         lifetimes.  It MAY additionally revoke the predecessor's
         refresh token where the issuance profile's optional revocation
         composition is in use.

   *  *Reported as non-active.* A superseded predecessor is reported
      through the same mechanisms that report a revoked or expired
      Mission.  Where the issuance profile's optional token
      introspection is offered, the composite active is false and, from
      the issuer, the mission.state member gives superseded.  Where the
      Mission Status profile [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-status]
      is deployed, the dedicated Status operation reports superseded
      among the terminal states and the Status Response mission.state
      gives superseded.  A deployment that offers either surface and
      this document MUST include superseded among the lifecycle states
      its issuer may report.  Consumers rely on the issuance profile's
      forward-compatibility rule: superseded, like any non-active state,
      is non-deriving.

7.1.  No implicit rollback

   The Mission Issuer MUST NOT implicitly resurrect a superseded
   predecessor when its successor is later revoked, expired, or itself
   superseded; superseded is terminal.  A deployment that needs "revert
   to the predecessor's authority" semantics expresses that as a new
   approval event creating a new Mission that carries the relevant
   authority, with its own predecessor link preserving the lineage.  A
   rollback is therefore a new governed Mission, not a state reversal.

8.  Replacement Expansion

   A successful expansion is a *replacement*: the successor replaces the
   predecessor, and the predecessor becomes superseded (Section 7).
   Replacement is the only mode this document defines.

   Under replacement, exactly one successor is created per predecessor,
   and the predecessor is no longer active once the successor activates.
   The successor carries its own complete Authority Set as derived and
   consented at the expansion approval event; it does not inherit the
   predecessor's authority by reference.  A deployment that wants the
   successor to retain the predecessor's authority alongside the new
   authority expresses the combined authority in the expansion Mission
   Intent, so the successor's authority_hash commits exactly the
   authority the Approver saw and approved (Section 5).

   A *branch* mode, in which the predecessor and the successor both
   remain active after expansion (for example, a separately scoped child
   task running alongside the original), is OPTIONAL and is not defined
   here.  A deployment that needs a separately scoped task alongside a
   still-active Mission creates an ordinary new Mission under the
   issuance profile and MAY set that Mission's related_to member
   (Section 6) to the original Mission's mission_id to preserve lineage;
   it does not set predecessor, which would imply a supersession, so the
   original remains active.  An atomic, grant-bound branch expansion
   that creates such a child within a single expansion approval event is
   deferred to a future revision of this document.

9.  Concurrent Expansion Reconciliation

   More than one expansion request MAY be in flight against the same
   predecessor at once, and more than one MAY be adjudicated and hold an
   unredeemed authorization code.  Because replacement produces exactly
   one successor per predecessor (Section 8) and supersession is
   deferred to first redemption (Section 7), the Mission Issuer MUST
   serialize the redemptions that would activate a successor of the same
   predecessor, so that concurrent expansions cannot each activate one.

   The Mission Issuer MUST apply compare-and-set semantics at the first
   redemption of a successor's authorization code.  In the same atomic
   step that would activate the successor and supersede the predecessor,
   the Mission Issuer MUST verify:

   1.  the predecessor is still in the active state; and

   2.  no other replacement expansion has already activated a successor
       for this predecessor (equivalently, the predecessor has not
       already transitioned to superseded).

   If either check fails, the Mission Issuer MUST refuse the redemption
   with invalid_grant and the applicable reconciliation status from the
   closed set below.  The losing or otherwise stale expansion is
   rejected at redemption; it activates no successor.

   The reconciliation status codes are:

   superseded_by_concurrent_expansion:  A concurrent replacement
      expansion has already produced a successor; the predecessor is now
      superseded rather than active.  The client SHOULD discover the
      existing successor and re-evaluate whether a further expansion is
      still required (an expansion of the successor is a new expansion
      against the successor as predecessor).

   predecessor_state_changed:  The predecessor made a terminal exit from
      active (to revoked, expired, or superseded) before this expansion
      could complete, whether caught at request binding (Section 4.4) or
      at the compare-and-set on first redemption (Section 9).  The
      client MUST NOT retry the same expansion against this predecessor.

   predecessor_not_active:  The predecessor is in a non-terminal non-
      active state (for example suspended under the Mission Status
      profile [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-status]) and cannot be
      expanded until it returns to active.  The client MAY retry the
      expansion after the predecessor is active again.

   The two terminal-exit codes overlap in the superseded case by design:
   superseded_by_concurrent_expansion is the specific reconciliation
   outcome when the cause is a concurrent expansion that has already
   won, and predecessor_state_changed is the general outcome for any
   other terminal exit from active.  A Mission Issuer SHOULD return the
   specific code when it can attribute the change to a concurrent
   expansion. predecessor_not_active is distinct from both: it reports a
   reversible, non-terminal state, so it invites the retry the terminal
   codes forbid.

   The Mission Issuer conveys the reconciliation status in a
   mission_expansion_status member of the OAuth error response body,
   alongside the invalid_grant error:

   mission_expansion_status:  A string carrying one reconciliation
      status from this document's closed set (Section 9).  It is
      returned by the step that failed.  At the PAR and token endpoints
      it is a member of the JSON error response body, alongside the
      OAuth error member.  On the front-channel authorization error
      response, which carries error parameters rather than a JSON body,
      it is carried as an error response parameter of the same name.
      Adjudication denial reasons ride the separate
      mission_denial_reason member (Section 10).

10.  Expansion Denial Reasons

   An adjudication that completes with the Approver declining, or with
   the Mission Issuer refusing on policy grounds, denies the expansion:
   no successor is created and the predecessor remains active and
   untouched.  Such a denial is an OAuth error at the approval or token
   step per the issuance profile (typically invalid_request for a
   request the Mission Issuer will not derive a valid Authority Set
   from, or the approval flow's own decline path).  It MAY additionally
   carry one machine-readable reason code from the closed set below:

   out_of_policy:  The Mission Issuer's governance policy refuses the
      requested authority class for this Mission, independent of who
      approves.

   approver_rejected:  The Approver declined the expansion at the
      consent step.

   out_of_scope_for_purpose:  The requested authority is incompatible
      with the Mission's recorded purpose; a different Mission, not an
      expansion of this one, is the appropriate vehicle.

   A companion profile MAY extend this set by specification (the
   experimental progressive authorization companion defines
   out_of_ceiling, [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-progressive]); a
   consumer MUST treat an unrecognized reason code as a denial with no
   further semantics.

   A Mission Issuer MUST NOT use a reason code to disclose policy
   boundaries beyond the adjudicated request (Section 13.5); omitting
   the reason code is always permitted.  When present, a reason code is
   carried in a mission_denial_reason member: at the PAR and token
   endpoints a member of the JSON error response body alongside the
   OAuth error member, on the front-channel authorization error response
   an error response parameter of the same name.

   mission_denial_reason is the shared carrier for adjudication denial
   reasons across the profiles that mint a Mission related to an
   existing one: the child delegation profile
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-child-delegation]) carries its
   own closed denial-reason set in the same member, and further such
   profiles do likewise.  Each profile defines its values by
   specification; the unrecognized-code rule above applies to the member
   wherever it appears.

   Two failure classes are not denial reasons and use the issuance
   profile's error vocabulary directly: an expansion request whose
   predecessor does not match the grant-resolved Mission, or whose
   predecessor is not active, fails with invalid_grant (Section 4.3,
   Section 4.4); an expansion Mission Intent the Mission Issuer cannot
   parse or cannot derive a valid Authority Set from fails with
   invalid_request or, where the issuance profile uses it,
   invalid_authorization_details ([RFC9396]), exactly as for any Mission
   creation.

11.  Worked Example

   The Q3 reconciliation Mission msn_8RfX2Lqv9TqMv4z7sA2bN1k0YpEdHc9-
   authorizes reading invoices and posting journal entries under $500.
   Mid-task the agent finds an adjustment of $1,200, outside the active
   Mission's authority.  It cannot widen in place; it requests an
   expansion, submitting a new Mission Intent through PAR bound to the
   predecessor's grant:

   POST /par HTTP/1.1
   Host: as.example.com
   Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded

   mission_intent=%7B...journal-entries%20cap%20%242000...%7D&
   predecessor=msn_8RfX2Lqv9TqMv4z7sA2bN1k0YpEdHc9-&
   predecessor_assertion=<Mission%20relationship%20assertion%20signed%20
     against%20the%20predecessor%27s%20cnf%20key>&
   client_id=s6BhdRkqt3

   The decoded predecessor_assertion (its signature omitted here):

   {
     "iss": "s6BhdRkqt3",
     "sub": "s6BhdRkqt3",
     "aud": "https://as.example.com",
     "iat": 1793607000,
     "exp": 1793607180,
     "jti": "rla_4mK7pQ2xV9rT6nL1sB",
     "mission_id": "msn_8RfX2Lqv9TqMv4z7sA2bN1k0YpEdHc9-",
     "mission_operation": "mission-expansion"
   }

   The Mission Issuer resolves the predecessor from mission_id, verifies
   the assertion per Section 4.2.2 (its signature against that Mission's
   own recorded cnf, aud, lifetime, and unseen jti), confirms it matches
   predecessor and is active, derives the successor's Authority Set, and
   obtains fresh consent from alice for the widened cap, issuing an
   authorization code.  When the client redeems that code, the Mission
   Issuer activates the successor and supersedes the predecessor
   atomically; until then the predecessor stays active.  The successor's
   token carries a predecessor member:

   {
     "mission": {
       "id": "msn_2Yt7Qv9LqMv4z7sA2bN1k0YpEdHc9RfX",
       "issuer": "https://as.example.com",
       "authority_hash":
         "sha-256:Td9bM7sX1cF8gH2vJ4kE5pNQl3KvZ4mP5x0wQrR6tY2",
       "predecessor": "msn_8RfX2Lqv9TqMv4z7sA2bN1k0YpEdHc9-"
     }
   }

   The predecessor is now superseded: it derives no new tokens, its
   already-issued tokens run out their short lifetimes, and the task
   continues under the successor.  The widening came only from alice's
   fresh consent; the successor's authority_hash commits the widened
   Authority Set it was actually approved for, not the predecessor's
   plus a delta.

12.  Conformance

   An implementation claims conformance to this document only in the
   Mission Issuer role and only when it adjudicates expansion.  A
   conforming *expansion-capable Mission Issuer* MUST:

   *  accept the predecessor and predecessor_assertion request
      parameters on a Mission creation via PAR, verify the assertion per
      Section 4.2.2, and treat the request as an expansion
      (Section 4.1);

   *  refuse a refresh token presented in predecessor_assertion with
      invalid_request (Section 4.1);

   *  bind the expansion request to the predecessor's grant and refuse a
      request whose predecessor does not match the Mission resolved from
      the assertion, or whose predecessor is not active, with
      invalid_grant (Section 4.3, Section 4.4);

   *  adjudicate the expansion as a fresh approval event that obtains
      new consent for the successor's authority (Section 5), enforcing
      the successor-expiry rule (Section 5.1);

   *  record the predecessor member on the successor's mission claim and
      Mission record (Section 6);

   *  activate the successor and transition the predecessor to
      superseded atomically at the first redemption of the successor's
      grant, leaving the predecessor active until then, and refuse
      further derivation under a superseded Mission (Section 7); and

   *  serialize concurrent expansions against the same predecessor with
      the reconciliation semantics of Section 9.

   An expansion-capable Mission Issuer is also a conforming issuance-
   profile Mission Issuer ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission]); this
   document adds the expansion surface to that role.  A Resource Server
   requires no new behavior: it enforces a successor's tokens exactly as
   it enforces any Mission-bound token, and treats the predecessor
   member, if it reads it at all, as audit context it MUST NOT use to
   grant authority (Section 6).

   Every expansion this document defines is adjudicated as a fresh
   approval event (Section 5).  The experimental progressive
   authorization companion defines a further OPTIONAL capability,
   *Expansion with Progressive Authorization*, with its own conformance
   requirements ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-progressive]).

13.  Security Considerations

   Expansion's central guarantee is the issuance profile's, applied to
   the successor: a user's fresh approval bounds every token derived for
   the broadened task.  The risks specific to expansion are in the
   predecessor binding, the predecessor-to-successor handoff, and the
   lineage link.

13.1.  Predecessor confusion

   A client could attempt to expand a Mission it does not control, for
   example by naming another tenant's or subject's mission_id in the
   predecessor parameter.

   Mitigations:

   *  The predecessor is resolved from the assertion's mission_id, then
      the assertion's signature MUST verify against that same resolved
      Mission's own recorded cnf, never a different Mission's key
      (Section 4.2.2); the Mission Issuer also verifies that the
      resolved Mission matches the predecessor request value and refuses
      a mismatch with invalid_grant (Section 4.3).  A client that holds
      no grant for the named predecessor cannot produce an assertion
      that verifies against its key and so cannot expand it.

   *  The issuance profile's integrity anchors are issuer-bound, so a
      Mission's governance state cannot be transplanted across Mission
      Issuers; an expansion is adjudicated only at the predecessor's own
      issuer, which the assertion's aud also binds it to (Section 4.2).

13.2.  Authority comes only from new consent

   An expansion could be misused to widen authority without the Approver
   re-consenting, if a successor were allowed to inherit or extend
   authority without a fresh approval.

   Mitigations:

   *  The successor's authority comes only from the Authority Set
      derived and consented at the expansion approval event; the
      authority_hash commits exactly that set (Section 5).  The
      predecessor member carries no authority and cannot widen the
      successor (Section 6).

   *  The successor-expiry rule (Section 5.1) keeps the successor's
      expires_at from silently exceeding the predecessor's, so expansion
      cannot launder a longer lifetime past the originally approved
      horizon.

13.3.  Race against predecessor lifecycle

   Between the moment a client decides to expand and the moment the
   successor activates at first redemption, the predecessor may be
   revoked, expire, or be superseded by a concurrent expansion.  Without
   serialization an expansion could appear to succeed against a
   predecessor that is no longer authoritative, or two successors could
   be created.

   Mitigations:

   *  The Mission Issuer verifies predecessor state and the no-existing-
      successor condition in the same atomic step that would activate
      the successor at first redemption, and serializes the redemptions
      that activate a successor of the same predecessor (Section 9).

   *  A failed check refuses with invalid_grant and a reconciliation
      status that tells the client whether to discover an existing
      successor or stop, without leaking the predecessor's new internal
      state beyond that (Section 9).

13.4.  Expansion versus step-up

   Conflating expansion with authentication step-up [RFC9470] would
   route an authentication shortfall through an approval event the
   Approver did not need to perform, surfacing irrelevant consent and
   risking approval fatigue, or conversely would treat a genuine
   authority shortfall as a mere re-authentication and silently widen
   nothing.

   Mitigation: a denial that is an authentication shortfall (acr, amr)
   is satisfied by step-up and MUST NOT be routed to expansion; a denial
   that is an authority shortfall is the one expansion addresses
   (Section 3.3).  The component that classifies the denial
   (Section 3.2) makes this distinction.

13.5.  Policy probing

   A client could submit many expansion requests for the same
   predecessor to map the Mission Issuer's policy boundary from the
   denial reasons.

   Mitigations:

   *  The Mission Issuer MUST rate-limit expansion requests per
      predecessor per client.  The bound is unconditional: it caps both
      policy probing and the approval prompts a client can drive against
      an Approver (prompt fatigue), and applies regardless of client
      type because the assertion's sender-constraint is itself required
      unconditionally (Section 4.3).

   *  A denial reason MUST NOT disclose policy boundaries beyond the
      adjudicated request (Section 10); a denial reports whether the
      requested authority was approved, not the full surface of what
      would have been.

13.6.  Audit linkage

   The predecessor member makes the expansion chain observable: an
   authorized auditor can trace a successor back through its
   predecessors to the original Mission.  This is a core governance
   property of expansion.  An implementation that omits the member
   breaks the chain and defeats it; the member is therefore mandatory on
   a successor (Section 6).

   General OAuth security guidance applies to the underlying credentials
   through the issuance profile.

13.7.  Relationship assertion theft

   An intercepted predecessor_assertion is a narrower prize than an
   intercepted refresh token was: it is unexpired for at most 300
   seconds, redeemable exactly once, and useless without the
   predecessor's own sender-constraint private key, since the theft of
   the assertion alone does not convey that key (Section 4.2.1).  A
   thief who also holds the key could already act as the predecessor
   directly and gains nothing from the assertion that key does not
   already give them.

14.  Privacy Considerations

   The privacy surface expansion adds over the issuance profile is the
   lineage link and the authority detail disclosed when a task is
   broadened.

14.1.  Predecessor-chain correlation

   The predecessor member that gives audit linkage (Section 13.6) is
   also a correlation surface: it links a successor to its predecessor
   across distinct approval events, so a party that can read the chain
   can correlate the evolving task over time, which is more than any
   single Mission discloses.  This is intrinsic to the governance value
   of expansion.  Deployments SHOULD scope read access to the
   predecessor member, and to any Mission-state surface that exposes it,
   to parties with a governance need, rather than exposing the chain to
   every credential audience.  The issuance profile's Mission Identifier
   correlation considerations apply to each Mission in the chain.

14.2.  Disclosure of the broadened task

   The expansion Mission Intent and the consent disclosure rendered at
   the expansion approval event reveal how the approved task is
   evolving.  The Mission Issuer SHOULD render that disclosure only to
   the Approver and authorized governance consumers, consistent with the
   issuance profile's treatment of consent disclosure.

15.  IANA Considerations

   The predecessor member of the mission claim (Section 6) is not
   registered in a dedicated registry: it is carried inside the already-
   registered mission claim, an open object for which the issuance
   profile establishes no member registry.  No new claim, parameter, or
   token-introspection registration is required for the lineage link.

   This document defines two closed sets of symbolic codes, the
   expansion reconciliation status codes (Section 9), conveyed in
   mission_expansion_status, and the expansion denial reasons
   (Section 10), conveyed in the shared mission_denial_reason member.
   As members of the OAuth error response JSON body at the PAR and token
   endpoints, both are namespaced to their error responses and require
   no registration; their authorization error response parameter forms
   are registered below.  This document creates no registry for the
   codes: the closed sets are small and fully specified in their
   defining specifications.  Should interoperable extension prove
   necessary, a future revision can create a "Mission Expansion
   Reconciliation Status" registry and a shared "Mission Denial Reason"
   registry with a Specification Required [RFC8126] policy.

   This document registers the following parameters in the "OAuth
   Parameters" registry:

   *  Name: predecessor

   *  Parameter Usage Location: authorization request

   *  Change Controller: IETF

   *  Reference: this document, Section 4.1

   *  Name: predecessor_assertion

   *  Parameter Usage Location: authorization request

   *  Change Controller: IETF

   *  Reference: this document, Section 4.1, Section 4.2

   *  Name: mission_expansion_status

   *  Parameter Usage Location: authorization response

   *  Change Controller: IETF

   *  Reference: this document, Section 9

   *  Name: mission_denial_reason

   *  Parameter Usage Location: authorization response

   *  Change Controller: IETF

   *  Reference: this document, Section 10; also carried by the child
      delegation profile
      ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-child-delegation])

   As with mission_intent in the issuance profile, PAR [RFC9126] carries
   authorization-request parameters without a distinct usage location,
   so the pushed submission of these parameters needs no separate
   registration. predecessor_assertion carries a Mission relationship
   assertion (Section 4.2), never a refresh token, and is submitted only
   through PAR, never on a front-channel authorization request
   (Section 4.1).

Acknowledgments

   The author thanks the reviewers of the Mission-Bound Authorization
   for OAuth 2.0 profile for feedback on the expansion model and its
   composition with the issuance flow.

References

Normative References

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission-Bound Authorization for OAuth
              2.0", 2026, <https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-bound-
              authorization/draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission.html>.

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC7515]  Jones, M., Bradley, J., and N. Sakimura, "JSON Web
              Signature (JWS)", RFC 7515, DOI 10.17487/RFC7515, May
              2015, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7515>.

   [RFC7519]  Jones, M., Bradley, J., and N. Sakimura, "JSON Web Token
              (JWT)", RFC 7519, DOI 10.17487/RFC7519, May 2015,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7519>.

   [RFC7523]  Jones, M., Campbell, B., and C. Mortimore, "JSON Web Token
              (JWT) Profile for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication and
              Authorization Grants", RFC 7523, DOI 10.17487/RFC7523, May
              2015, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7523>.

   [RFC7800]  Jones, M., Bradley, J., and H. Tschofenig, "Proof-of-
              Possession Key Semantics for JSON Web Tokens (JWTs)",
              RFC 7800, DOI 10.17487/RFC7800, April 2016,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7800>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

   [RFC8705]  Campbell, B., Bradley, J., Sakimura, N., and T.
              Lodderstedt, "OAuth 2.0 Mutual-TLS Client Authentication
              and Certificate-Bound Access Tokens", RFC 8705,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8705, February 2020,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8705>.

   [RFC9126]  Lodderstedt, T., Campbell, B., Sakimura, N., Tonge, D.,
              and F. Skokan, "OAuth 2.0 Pushed Authorization Requests",
              RFC 9126, DOI 10.17487/RFC9126, September 2021,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9126>.

   [RFC9396]  Lodderstedt, T., Richer, J., and B. Campbell, "OAuth 2.0
              Rich Authorization Requests", RFC 9396,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9396, May 2023,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9396>.

   [RFC9449]  Fett, D., Campbell, B., Bradley, J., Lodderstedt, T.,
              Jones, M., and D. Waite, "OAuth 2.0 Demonstrating Proof of
              Possession (DPoP)", RFC 9449, DOI 10.17487/RFC9449,
              September 2023, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9449>.

Informative References

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-runtime]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission-Bound Runtime Enforcement", 2026,
              <https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-bound-authorization/
              draft-mcguinness-mission-runtime.html>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-id-continuation-assertion]
              McGuinness, K., "Identity Continuation Assertion for OAuth
              2.0 Token Exchange", 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-mcguinness-oauth-
              id-continuation-assertion/>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-child-delegation]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission Child Delegation for OAuth 2.0",
              2026, <https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-bound-
              authorization/draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-child-
              delegation.html>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-issuance-grant]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission Issuance Grant for OAuth 2.0",
              2026, <https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-bound-
              authorization/draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-issuance-
              grant.html>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-progressive]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission Progressive Authorization for
              OAuth 2.0", 2026, <https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-
              bound-authorization/draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-
              progressive.html>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-signals]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission Lifecycle Signals for OAuth 2.0",
              2026, <https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-bound-
              authorization/draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-
              signals.html>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-status]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission Status and Lifecycle for OAuth
              2.0", 2026, <https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-bound-
              authorization/draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-status.html>.

   [RFC8126]  Cotton, M., Leiba, B., and T. Narten, "Guidelines for
              Writing an IANA Considerations Section in RFCs", BCP 26,
              RFC 8126, DOI 10.17487/RFC8126, June 2017,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8126>.

   [RFC9470]  Bertocci, V. and B. Campbell, "OAuth 2.0 Step Up
              Authentication Challenge Protocol", RFC 9470,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9470, September 2023,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9470>.

Author's Address

   Karl McGuinness
   Independent
   Email: public@karlmcguinness.com
