



Network Working Group                                      K. McGuinness
Internet-Draft                                               Independent
Intended status: Informational                            3 October 2026
Expires: 6 April 2027


                         Mission Intent Shaping
                draft-mcguinness-mission-shaping-latest

Abstract

   Mission-Bound Authorization for OAuth 2.0 (the "issuance profile")
   defines the Mission Intent a client submits and the Authority Set an
   Authorization Server derives from it, but not how an open-ended task
   request becomes a Mission Intent.  This document describes the
   Mission Shaper, a client-side component that turns a user request or
   upstream trigger into a candidate Mission Intent and, optionally, an
   Authority Proposal: its trust boundary; recommended capability
   resolution, ambiguity handling, and refusal; Shaping Evidence, an
   audit record of how a proposal was produced; and re-shaping after a
   refusal, denial, or required revision.  It defines no protocol.  The
   shaper only proposes; authority is created by the issuance profile's
   validation and approval.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   The latest revision of this draft can be found at
   https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-bound-authorization/draft-
   mcguinness-mission-shaping.html.  Status information for this
   document may be found at https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-
   mcguinness-mission-shaping/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/mcguinness/mission-bound-authorization.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 6 April 2027.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
     1.1.  Scope
     1.2.  Mission Substrate
   2.  Conventions and Terminology
   3.  Shaper Role and Trust Boundary
     3.1.  Client-Side Placement
     3.2.  The Shaper Proposes; It Does Not Issue
     3.3.  Deployment Roles
   4.  Processing Model
   5.  Capability and Resource Resolution
   6.  Mission Intent Construction
     6.1.  Mission Intent Members
     6.2.  Authority Proposal
     6.3.  Shaping Ceiling and Default Deny
     6.4.  Delegation and Child Missions
   7.  Ambiguity Handling
     7.1.  Clarifications
     7.2.  Refusal
   8.  Shaping Evidence
     8.1.  Integrity and the Evidence Hash
   9.  Submitting a Shaped Proposal
     9.1.  Entering the Issuance Flow
     9.2.  Mission Issuer Handling
   10. Re-Shaping
   11. Deployment Considerations
     11.1.  Exposing Shaping as a Service
     11.2.  Declaring the Shaping Posture
   12. Security Considerations
     12.1.  Model Output Is Not Authority
     12.2.  Shaper Compromise Does Not Directly Grant Authority
     12.3.  Prompt Injection and Untrusted Content
     12.4.  Silent Broadening and Stale Capability Sources
     12.5.  Shaper-to-Client Integrity in a Multi-Process Client
   13. Privacy Considerations
   14. IANA Considerations
   15. References
     15.1.  Normative References
     15.2.  Informative References
   Appendix A.  Worked Example
   Appendix B.  Document History
   Acknowledgments
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

   Mission-Bound Authorization for OAuth 2.0
   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission] (the "issuance profile") makes a
   Mission a first-class authorization artifact.  A client submits a
   Mission Intent, and optionally an Authority Proposal, in a Pushed
   Authorization Request [RFC9126].  The Authorization Server, acting as
   Mission Issuer, derives an Authority Set, obtains the Approver's
   consent, and binds issued tokens to the approved Mission.  The
   issuance profile does not specify how a deployment turns an open-
   ended task request, such as "resolve this billing dispute", into a
   Mission Intent with a goal, target resources, task bounds, success
   criteria, purpose, and expiry.

   This document describes that step, performed by a client-side Mission
   Shaper.  The shaper can be a rules engine, a form, a workflow, or a
   function that uses a language model; whatever its implementation, its
   output is untrusted input to the Mission Issuer (Section 3.2).

   The practices in this document make shaping auditable and fail
   closed.  An ambiguous request is narrowed, clarified, or refused
   (Section 7); an unresolved capability is recorded, not treated as
   authority to create it (Section 5); Shaping Evidence records how each
   proposal was produced (Section 8); and after a refusal, denial, or
   required revision, the shaper constructs a narrower next proposal
   (Section 10).  Every later guarantee (the derived Authority Set, the
   approval, per-action decisions, and the evidence trail) operates on
   what the shaper proposed.

1.1.  Scope

   This document is Informational.  Deployments differ in how they
   process prompts, which language models they use, and what their
   products require, so no two transform a request into a Mission Intent
   the same way.  The interoperable surface is the result, the Mission
   Intent and Authority Proposal, which the issuance profile defines and
   validates.  This document therefore describes the shaper's role in
   the trust model and recommended shaper behavior.  It defines no
   shaping protocol, media type, claim name, conformance class, grant
   type, token format, policy language, runtime decision API, or
   required endpoint; the approved Mission and its tokens remain those
   of the issuance profile.

   This document is optional.  A deployment that accepts only hand-
   authored Mission Intents conforms to the issuance profile and is
   unaffected by this document.

1.2.  Mission Substrate

   This document is written against the Mission model, not OAuth 2.0
   mechanics.  A shaper produces a structured Mission Intent and,
   optionally, a proposal of concrete authority, for a submission that
   the receiving issuer treats as untrusted input.  Shaping Evidence
   commitments use the Default Commitment Construction of
   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-substrate].  The issuance profile
   carries the submission in a Pushed Authorization Request; the Mission
   Authority Server [I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-authority-server]
   accepts the same Mission Intent at its mission submission endpoint.
   The AAuth binding [I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-aauth] defines no
   Mission Intent: its mission proposal is a natural-language
   description, so the construction guidance in this document does not
   apply to it.  Another authorization substrate that accepts a
   structured, untrusted task proposal and commits it at approval can
   host these practices unchanged.

2.  Conventions and Terminology

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

   The BCP 14 keywords in this document state recommended behavior for
   three parties:

   *  the shaper, expressed where possible on the observable shaping
      artifacts (the Mission Intent proposal and Shaping Evidence);

   *  a deployment that operates a shaper, including its client; and

   *  any party that receives shaper output or Shaping Evidence,
      including the Mission Issuer, which never treats either as
      authority.

   None of these is a conformance obligation.  The Mission Issuer's
   processing of a submission is specified by the issuance profile; this
   document cites it and does not restate it as its own requirement.

   JSON [RFC8259] is the data model for the illustrative objects in this
   document; the surrounding prose is authoritative.  Digests over
   Shaping Evidence use the JSON Canonicalization Scheme (JCS) [RFC8785]
   (Section 8).

   This document uses the following terms defined by the issuance
   profile: Mission, Mission Intent, Mission Intent Submission
   (Submission envelope), Authority Proposal, Authority Set, Mission
   Issuer, Approver, and Agent (Client).  "Client" and "client-side"
   refer to that Agent (Client), the OAuth client that submits the
   Mission Intent.  The issuance profile's Mission Issuer is an
   Authorization Server [RFC6749]; this document calls it the Mission
   Issuer throughout.  "The issuance profile" without a section
   reference means that document as a whole.

   This document defines the following terms:

   Mission Shaper (or "shaper"):  A client-side component that produces
      a candidate Mission Intent, and optionally an Authority Proposal,
      from a task request and supporting context.  A Mission Shaper does
      not grant authority.

   Mission Intent proposal:  The candidate Mission Intent the shaper
      emits for validation and approval under the issuance profile.  The
      client submits it as the intent member of the Submission envelope.

   Shaped proposal:  A Mission Intent proposal together with any
      Authority Proposal the shaper produces for the same submission.
      "Proposal" alone means a shaped proposal.

   Shaping ceiling:  A bound on a shaped proposal, expressed as an
      authorization_details array and supplied by the deployment or by
      the caller of the shaper (Section 6.3).  It is distinct from the
      consented authority_ceiling Mission member of
      [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-progressive] and from the pre-
      consented Template Ceiling on Missions dispatched from a template
      ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-template]).

   Partial proposal:  A shaped proposal that omits authority the task
      needs.  It is emitted only with the disclosures that Section 6.3
      and Section 7 require.

   Resolution basis:  The ground on which the shaper admits a resource
      or action into a proposal (Section 5).

   Shaping Evidence:  The record of inputs, inferences, policy
      decisions, unresolved ambiguities, and capability-resolution facts
      that produced a shaped proposal (Section 8).  Audit material, not
      authority.

   The roles Mission requester and capability source are defined in
   Section 3.3.

3.  Shaper Role and Trust Boundary

   The trust boundary separates the client, where the shaper runs, from
   the Mission Issuer, where the Mission Intent is validated and the
   Authority Set is created.

3.1.  Client-Side Placement

   The shaper runs in the same trust domain as the client that submits
   the Mission Intent.  The client consumes the shaper's output and
   submits it to the Mission Issuer (Section 9.1).

   The shaper is not a separate principal.  It has no identity of its
   own to the Mission Issuer, which sees only the client.  A deployment
   MAY factor the shaper into its own process or network service for
   engineering reasons (Section 11.1), but doing so does not make the
   shaper a principal to the Mission Issuer and does not move it across
   the trust boundary: it remains client-side machinery that produces an
   untrusted proposal.

3.2.  The Shaper Proposes; It Does Not Issue

   The Mission Shaper MUST NOT issue, derive, or certify authority of
   any kind.  It produces a shaped proposal, which is untrusted client
   input under the issuance profile until the Mission Issuer validates
   and narrows it and binds authority at the approval event
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission], Section "Submission via PAR").
   Nothing in this document changes that treatment, and a shaper SHOULD
   NOT structure its output to imply otherwise.

   Three consequences follow:

   1.  It does not act as a credential issuer.  A shaper that signs its
       output as a statement of authority, attaches an authority
       assertion, emits a credential, or otherwise behaves as a
       credential issuer is acting outside this role and is NOT
       RECOMMENDED.  A deployment MAY integrity-protect shaper output
       for client-internal reasons, for example to detect tampering
       between the shaper and the submission step in a multi-process
       client (Section 12.5).  Such protection has no authority
       semantics at the Mission Issuer and MUST NOT be relied upon
       beyond the client.

   2.  It does not mimic Mission Issuer output.  The Mission Intent
       proposal MUST NOT carry mission.id, intent_hash, authority_hash,
       an Authority Set, a lifecycle state, or approving-principal
       evidence.  The Mission Issuer produces those values on the
       Mission record at and after the approval event
       ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission], Section "Mission Record").
       The issuance profile rejects a Mission Intent that carries an
       unrecognized top-level member, including any such issuer-output
       member, with the invalid_request error code
       ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission], Section "Submission via
       PAR").

   3.  It does not cross the trust boundary.  Admitting input across the
       boundary is a Mission Issuer action.  The shaper does not
       initiate the submission, call the pushed authorization request
       endpoint or the authorization endpoint, handle the authorization
       response, select the recipient Mission Issuer on its own
       authority, or attest to the submission on the Mission Issuer's
       behalf.

3.3.  Deployment Roles

   This document separates four roles that implementations often
   collapse:

   Mission requester:  The user or component that supplies the task
      request to be shaped.

   Mission Shaper:  Produces a shaped proposal and Shaping Evidence.
      Not authoritative for policy or consent.

   Mission Issuer:  The Authorization Server that validates the
      proposal, derives the Authority Set, records the approval event,
      and issues Mission-bound credentials under the issuance profile.

   Capability source:  A resource-owning catalog, metadata endpoint,
      policy service, or other source the shaper consults to resolve
      candidate resources and actions.

   A deployment MAY co-locate these roles, but it SHOULD preserve the
   authority boundary: shaping produces a proposal, issuance creates an
   approved Mission, and runtime enforcement permits or denies actions.

4.  Processing Model

   A shaper processes a request in the following order, which the
   remaining sections follow:

   1.  Normalize and classify the task input.

   2.  Separate facts the requester supplied, facts trusted context
       supplied, and facts the shaper inferred.

   3.  Resolve candidate resources and actions against capability
       sources (Section 5).

   4.  Apply deployment shaping policy, including any shaping ceiling
       and risk classification, while constructing the proposal
       (Section 6).

   5.  Detect material ambiguity (Section 7).

   6.  Produce one outcome: a shaped proposal, a request for
       clarification, or a refusal.

   7.  Record Shaping Evidence and, for a proposal, optionally compute a
       shaping_evidence_hash (Section 8).

5.  Capability and Resource Resolution

   The shaper SHOULD NOT skip capability resolution merely because a
   task is plausible in natural language.  A request such as "email the
   customer" does not identify which mailbox, sender, recipient,
   template, or data source is allowed unless the deployment's
   capability sources or policy resolve those details.

   Before proposing a resource, the shaper SHOULD establish its
   resolution basis, which is one of the following:

   catalog:  Resolved from a catalog, metadata endpoint, API
      description, tool catalog, or equivalent source.

   policy:  Selected by a deployment policy rule.

   user_supplied_exact:  The requester supplied a concrete resource
      identifier, and the shaper verified that it is admissible for
      shaping.

   capability_projection:  A resource-owning system or Authorization
      Server supplied an allowed resource and action projection for this
      task.

   A model-generated capability name with none of these bases is
   unresolved (Section 7.2).

   For each resolved capability, Shaping Evidence SHOULD record the
   following, as a capability_resolutions entry (Section 8):

   *  what was requested (requested);

   *  what it resolved to (resolved);

   *  the basis (basis);

   *  the source consulted, for catalog and capability_projection
      (source_uri); and

   *  where available, a digest over the source representation
      (source_digest), so that approval and runtime enforcement can
      detect drift.

   A confidence value, if recorded, is audit evidence only, and a party
   that receives it MUST NOT treat it as authority.

6.  Mission Intent Construction

   A shaped proposal has two parts: a Mission Intent proposal, which
   describes the task, and an optional Authority Proposal, which
   proposes concrete authority for it (Section 6.2).  The Mission Intent
   proposal MUST satisfy the syntactic requirements of the issuance
   profile's Mission Intent object
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission], Section "Mission Intent");
   Section 6.1 covers each member.  The proposal MUST be bounded enough
   for the Mission Issuer to derive an Authority Set without
   interpreting natural language as authority.

   The shaper SHOULD NOT include a resource merely because the task text
   implies it might be useful: each resource has a resolution basis
   (Section 5), or the shaper produces a clarification request or a
   refusal.

6.1.  Mission Intent Members

   The following guidance maps a request or trigger onto each Mission
   Intent member.  It is guidance, not an algorithm.  Concrete authority
   (actions, structured constraints, and delegation facts) does not
   appear in the Intent; it belongs in the Authority Proposal
   (Section 6.2).

   goal:  A concise summary in the form the Approver sees at consent.
      It preserves the requester's framing, so that the disclosure
      matches the requester's understanding.  The shaper SHOULD NOT
      quote verbatim prompt text that contains instructions or commands
      (Section 12.3).

   goal_lang:  The language tag of the Intent's human-readable members
      (goal, task_bounds, and success_criteria), when the shaper knows
      it.

   target_resources:  The resources, datasets, tools, or domains the
      request referenced, each as an absolute URI.  A human-readable
      label belongs in Shaping Evidence as an audit annotation, not in
      target_resources.  Every resource value in the Authority Proposal
      appears here; the issuance profile refuses a proposed entry whose
      resource is not among target_resources with the invalid_request
      error code ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission],
      Section "Authority Proposal").  The shaper SHOULD NOT widen
      target_resources beyond what the request referenced: a resource
      added "for convenience" enlarges approved authority.

   task_bounds:  Free-text bounds the requester expressed, plus the
      deployment-policy bounds always applied, so that the Approver sees
      the full set of bounds.  Where a bound is machine-enforceable, the
      shaper also emits it as a structured constraint in the Authority
      Proposal; the Mission Issuer never parses the prose
      ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission], Section "Mission
      Authority").  The shaper SHOULD NOT silently drop a user-expressed
      bound; it records the bound in task_bounds or in Shaping Evidence,
      or it requests clarification or refuses.

   success_criteria:  Free-text observable outcomes that show the task
      is complete, phrased for the Approver.  They are disclosure and
      audit material only.  The shaper SHOULD NOT encode authority in
      success_criteria, which carries no machine semantics in the
      issuance profile.

   purpose:  If the client has registered purposes, the registered
      purpose URI that matches the task.  If none matches, the shaper
      omits purpose or requests clarification instead of choosing the
      nearest one: purpose can key the Mission Issuer's configured
      mapping ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission], Section "Mission
      Authority"), so a wrong choice changes the derived authority
      (Section 12.3).  The shaper SHOULD NOT invent a new purpose URI.

   expires_at:  The earliest expiry that lets the task complete; if the
      request names no bound, a conservative deployment default.  The
      shaper does not request the maximum the Mission Issuer allows, and
      the Mission Issuer can narrow the value further.

   requested_derivation_limit:  Proposed only where the Mission Issuer
      implements [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-derivation-limits];
      a Mission Issuer without it refuses the member as an unknown
      Intent member.  Where the task implies a natural issuance count (a
      one-shot read, a fixed number of scheduled runs), the shaper
      proposes that count.  Otherwise it omits the member, leaving the
      limit to deployment policy alone, which can impose none
      ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-derivation-limits],
      Section "Effective Limit").  The shaper does not propose a large
      round number "to be safe": a proposed count only lowers the
      effective limit, so a high guess adds no bound and misleads the
      Approver.

   Other companion members:  A companion profile can define further top-
      level Mission Intent members (for example, the consumption bounds
      of [I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-metering]).  The shaper emits the
      ones the deployment's adopted companions recognize.  It SHOULD NOT
      emit a member the deployment does not recognize, since the
      issuance profile rejects an Intent that carries one.

6.2.  Authority Proposal

   The Mission Intent carries no authority members.  Where a task calls
   for concrete authority (actions, structured constraints such as
   max_amount, or delegation facts), the shaper produces an Authority
   Proposal: an authorization_details array [RFC9396] that the client
   submits alongside the Intent and that the Mission Issuer treats as
   untrusted input ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission],
   Section "Authority Proposal").

   Where cross-vendor interoperability matters, the shaper SHOULD carry
   the concrete candidate authority it proposes (the resources, actions,
   and constraints) in an Authority Proposal, and record the same
   Authority Proposal in Shaping Evidence.  The Mission Issuer then
   derives the Authority Set in narrowing mode, each derived entry a
   subset of a proposed entry, rather than from a configured mapping
   keyed on the Intent ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission],
   Section "Mission Authority").  Narrowing is the portable derivation
   path: the proposal format and the narrowing rule are interoperable,
   so the result is enforceable and auditable across domains, and only
   the Mission Issuer's choice of what to narrow to stays local.

   The proposal MUST NOT present issuer outputs as approved authority:
   the derived Authority Set is the Mission Issuer's product
   (Section 3.2).  Shaping Evidence that records the same facts is for
   audit only and is never an input to derivation.

6.3.  Shaping Ceiling and Default Deny

   The shaper SHOULD apply a default-deny posture: its proposal contains
   only resources that have a positive basis in the request, context,
   capability sources, and shaping policy, and only the task_bounds and
   success_criteria the shaper can defend.  It does not include a broad
   resource class as a fallback for unresolved detail.

   When the concrete objects of an open-ended task are not known at
   shaping time, the shaper SHOULD express the bound as invariants over
   those objects (the owning customer, the tenant, an amount ceiling,
   read-only except named writes, a time window), instead of reaching
   for a broad resource class to anticipate them.  Each invariant is a
   structured constraint in the Authority Proposal, which bounds the
   derived authority, and is restated in task_bounds for the Approver.
   The Mission Issuer derives the same Authority Set whatever
   task_bounds says ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission],
   Section "Mission Authority"), and runtime enforcement applies the
   constraints per object at the point of use.

   The shaper SHOULD propose a Mission Intent scoped to one concrete
   task, not to an agent's whole session or standing role.  When a
   request spans several distinct tasks, it proposes several task-scoped
   Mission Intents instead of one broad proposal, so that each resulting
   Mission stays narrow and is approved and revoked separately.

   When a deployment or caller supplies a shaping ceiling, the proposal
   MUST be a subset of it: each Authority Proposal entry is a subset of
   a ceiling entry of the same type under that type's subset rule
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission], Section "Subset Rule"), and
   each target_resources value is among the resources the ceiling's
   entries name.  An Intent submitted without an Authority Proposal can
   be derived through the Mission Issuer's configured mapping, which can
   grant more actions on the same resources than the ceiling allows.
   When the ceiling must constrain authority, the shaper MUST therefore
   produce an Authority Proposal.  If the task cannot be completed
   within that ceiling, the shaper MUST request clarification, refuse,
   or emit a partial proposal.  It MUST NOT silently drop necessary
   authority: it emits a partial proposal only when both of the
   following hold:

   *  Shaping Evidence records the excluded authority; and

   *  the outcome clearly indicates that the proposal may not satisfy
      the task.

   The Mission Issuer enforces its own ceiling whether or not a shaping
   ceiling is present.

6.4.  Delegation and Child Missions

   The shaper does not author the delegation member of an Authority Set
   entry ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-resource-access]).  If the
   task implies sub-agents, background workers, or other delegated
   execution, the shaper SHOULD propose that fact in the Authority
   Proposal, recording the same fact in Shaping Evidence for audit only;
   the Mission Issuer narrows it when deriving delegation, or refuses.
   The shaper MAY also describe the desired delegation bound in
   task_bounds or success_criteria.  The shaper SHOULD NOT infer
   delegated execution from the existence of a task graph or an agent
   harness: a child actor needs explicit authority derived by the
   Mission Issuer, not session ancestry.

   Where a deployment creates Child Missions
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-child-delegation]), turning a
   sub-task into the proposed Child Mission Intent is a shaping act, and
   this document applies to it unchanged.  The Parent Mission's
   Authority Set is the shaping ceiling.  The child-delegation profile
   refuses a child that is not a strict subset of its parent, so a
   proposal that exceeds the parent cannot be approved; the shaper
   instead requests clarification, refuses, or emits a partial proposal
   (Section 6.3).  Shaping Evidence for a child proposal SHOULD record
   the parent Mission identifier (parent_mission) and the parent-derived
   ceiling it shaped under (shaping_ceiling).

7.  Ambiguity Handling

   The shaper SHOULD classify material ambiguity.  Ambiguity is material
   when choosing one interpretation over another would change the
   Authority Set, the action class, the actor allowed to exercise it,
   the expiry, or the risk posture.

   For material ambiguity, the shaper SHOULD do one of the following:

   1.  request clarification (Section 7.1);

   2.  emit a narrower proposal that excludes the ambiguous authority
       and record the exclusion in Shaping Evidence; or

   3.  refuse with a reason (Section 7.2).

   When the excluded authority is necessary for the task, the narrower
   proposal is a partial proposal: Shaping Evidence MUST record the
   excluded authority, and the outcome MUST indicate that the proposal
   may not satisfy the task, as under a shaping ceiling (Section 6.3).

   When a shaper resolves an ambiguity in the broadening direction,
   Shaping Evidence MUST record the resolution and, where deployment
   policy permits that default resolution, the policy rule that
   authorized it.  The requirement is stated on the observable artifact
   because the Mission Issuer cannot observe the shaper's internal
   reasoning.

   Requesting clarification is not approval: the requester's answer
   shapes the Mission Intent, and the Approver still consents to the
   disclosure the Mission Issuer renders.  A shaper MUST NOT treat
   answered clarifications as a reason to skip the Mission Issuer's
   consent step: the shaper is not the Approver's agent for consent.

7.1.  Clarifications

   A clarification SHOULD identify, in terms the requester can
   understand, the authority consequence of each offered answer.  "Need
   more scope?" is not sufficient; "May this Mission read invoices for
   customer 5678 in addition to customer 1234?" is.  It SHOULD state
   what the shaper will do if it is left unanswered (refuse, narrow, or
   wait).

   Clarification runs from the shaper to the requester and resolves task
   ambiguity before a proposal exists.  The reverse channel, in which
   the Approver questions the proposal at the consent surface, is
   Disclosure Interrogation
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-consent-evidence]); Shaping
   Evidence, in particular entry_rationales, is its grounding material
   (Section 8).

7.2.  Refusal

   Refusal is a shaper-internal decision.  It requires no Mission Issuer
   involvement, and this document defines no wire-level refusal error.
   A shaper SHOULD refuse to shape when one of the following conditions
   holds.  Each label is a recommended value for Shaping Evidence and
   for reporting the refusal to the client:

   unsupported_task:  The shaper cannot produce a Mission Intent for the
      task class.

   unresolved_resource, unresolved_action:  A requested resource or
      action cannot be resolved to a capability source (Section 5).

   outside_authority_ceiling:  The task requires authority outside the
      deployment or caller shaping ceiling (Section 6.3).

   policy_prohibited:  Deployment policy prohibits shaping the task.

   material_ambiguity:  Material ambiguity remains, and policy requires
      refusal instead of clarification.

   unsafe_to_shape:  The request includes adversarial, conflicting, or
      untrusted content that prevents a defensible proposal
      (Section 12.3).

   A deployment MAY define additional labels.  It SHOULD NOT reuse these
   labels with a different meaning.

   A shaper SHOULD NOT refuse merely because the requested authority is
   broad, or because the Authority Set the Mission Issuer would derive
   looks expensive.  Breadth is the decision of the Mission Issuer and
   the Approver, and cost is a runtime concern; refusing on those
   grounds substitutes the shaper's judgment for the Approver's.

8.  Shaping Evidence

   Shaping Evidence records how a proposal was produced.  It is audit
   material: it does not grant authority and MUST NOT be used by a
   Resource Server or Policy Decision Point (PDP) to permit an action.
   It makes the intent generator an attributable role, distinct from the
   requester, the Approver, and the executing agent
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-architecture]).  This document defines
   no required schema, media type, or transport for Shaping Evidence.
   Its digests are canonical-object digests and envelope anchors under
   the substrate's Default Commitment Construction, which this document
   imports normatively ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-substrate],
   Section "Default Commitment Construction").

   The following members are RECOMMENDED content.  They are not a
   required schema: a deployment can omit a member that does not apply
   and can add members of its own.  Unless its entry says otherwise, a
   member applies to every outcome.

   shaper_id:  String.  Identifies the shaper.

   shaper_version:  String.  Identifies the shaper implementation,
      model, policy bundle, or workflow version.

   outcome:  String.  The outcome of this shaping pass: proposal,
      partial_proposal, clarification, or refusal (Section 4).

   refusal_reason:  String.  A refusal label (Section 7.2).  Present
      when outcome is refusal.

   proposed_intent:  Object.  The Mission Intent proposal exactly as
      emitted, which ties the evidence to the proposal it describes.
      Present when outcome is proposal or partial_proposal.

   proposed_authorization_details:  Array.  The Authority Proposal
      exactly as emitted.  Present when the shaper produced one.

   shaping_ceiling:  Array.  The shaping ceiling applied (Section 6.3),
      including one derived from a Parent Mission.  Present when a
      ceiling was supplied.

   parent_mission:  String.  The Parent Mission identifier.  Present for
      a Child Mission proposal (Section 6.4).

   input_digest:  String.  A digest over the shaping request, in the
      integrity-anchor form of the issuance profile
      ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission], Section "Integrity
      Anchors"), computed over the JCS canonical bytes of the request
      after removing the fields that the named exclusion ruleset marks
      as not retained.  To make the digest recomputable by a later
      auditor, the evidence MUST also record input_exclusion_ruleset.

   input_exclusion_ruleset:  String.  An identifier, with version, of
      the exclusion ruleset applied to input_digest.  An auditor
      recomputes the digest over the retained canonical input under that
      ruleset.

   user_supplied_facts:  Array of strings.  Facts copied from the
      request.

   inferred_facts:  Array of objects, one per fact the shaper inferred,
      with the members fact (string), evidence (string, the supporting
      evidence), and confirmation_required (boolean, whether a human
      must confirm it).

   policy_decisions:  Array of strings.  Identifiers of the policy rules
      applied during shaping.

   capability_resolutions:  Array of objects, one per resource or
      action, with the members requested (string), resolved (string),
      basis (string, a resolution basis of Section 5), source_uri
      (string, the source consulted, for catalog and
      capability_projection), source_digest (string, defined below), and
      optionally confidence (number, audit evidence only).

   entry_rationales:  Array of objects, one per proposed resource or
      action, with the members applies_to (object naming the resource
      and action) and basis (string, the user-supplied or inferred fact
      that motivated its inclusion).  A consent surface draws on this
      record to answer why the task needs an entry (Disclosure
      Interrogation,
      [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-consent-evidence]).

   ambiguities:  Array of objects, one per material ambiguity, with the
      members description (string) and handling (string: clarified,
      narrowed, refused, or resolved_by_policy), plus policy_rule
      (string) when handling is resolved_by_policy (Section 7).

   excluded_authority:  Array of objects in the form of Authority
      Proposal entries.  Plausible authority the shaper deliberately
      excluded.

   refusal_input:  Object.  For a re-proposal, the refusal signal that
      motivated it (Section 10): the error code and any
      error_description, or the mission_rejected_scope and
      mission_rejected_authorization_details values of a required
      revision.

   predecessor_evidence:  String.  For a re-proposal, the
      shaping_evidence_hash of the predecessor proposal's evidence, or a
      deployment identifier for that evidence when no hash was computed.

   model_trace:  Deployment-defined.  Model prompts, outputs, or tool
      calls used during shaping.  When retained, it MUST be treated as
      sensitive audit data (Section 13).  It MUST NOT be rendered as
      authority.

   A source_digest is computed over the source representation the shaper
   consulted: the JCS [RFC8785] canonical bytes when that representation
   is a JSON document, and otherwise the bytes as retrieved (for an HTTP
   retrieval, the response content after any content coding is removed).
   It is encoded as an integrity anchor is: sha-256: followed by the
   base64url encoding, without padding, of the SHA-256 digest
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission], Section "Integrity Anchors").
   Approval and runtime enforcement detect drift by comparing it with a
   digest of the current representation.

   Appendix A shows Shaping Evidence for a complete example.

8.1.  Integrity and the Evidence Hash

   A deployment MAY bind a proposal to its evidence so that the Mission
   record can cite how the proposal was produced.  When it does,
   shaping_evidence_hash is a string in the integrity-anchor form of the
   issuance profile, computed as follows:

   1.  Place the Shaping Evidence object in the issuance profile's
       domain-separated {typ, iss, value} envelope, with typ set to
       mission-shaping-evidence, iss set to the Mission Issuer's issuer
       identifier, and value set to the Shaping Evidence object.

   2.  Compute the prefixed digest of the JCS [RFC8785] canonical bytes
       of that envelope.

   The envelope supplies the typ domain separation and the iss binding
   that a digest of the bare object would omit.  The hash is an audit
   commitment only.

   Because the shaper is client-side and MAY build a proposal before the
   target Mission Issuer is selected, the hash can be computed only once
   the Mission Issuer's issuer is fixed.  A proposal re-submitted to a
   different Mission Issuer needs a shaping_evidence_hash recomputed
   under that issuer's issuer.

   A deployment MAY instead, or in addition, carry an integrity envelope
   over the Shaping Evidence, for example a JWS [RFC7515] Compact
   Serialization over the JCS canonical bytes of the evidence.  When the
   JWS is embedded in the evidence, the signing input omits the member
   that carries it.

   Where the deployment records Consent Evidence, the client conveys the
   hash in the mission_shaping_evidence_hash request parameter, and the
   Mission Issuer records it in the OPTIONAL shaping_evidence_hash
   member of the consent-disclosure object
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-consent-evidence]).

   Neither the hash nor the envelope confers authority.  A Resource
   Server or PDP MUST NOT treat a shaping evidence hash as proof of
   authority.

   When a Mission record cites a shaping_evidence_hash, the deployment
   SHOULD retain the Shaping Evidence and its input_exclusion_ruleset
   for as long as it retains the Mission record (the audit horizon of
   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission], Section "Mission Record"), so
   that the cited evidence stays reproducible.  Retained Shaping
   Evidence is not rewritten, for example to update a label: any change
   breaks the commitment the Mission record cites.

9.  Submitting a Shaped Proposal

9.1.  Entering the Issuance Flow

   The issuance profile defines a mission_intent parameter carried in a
   Pushed Authorization Request (PAR) [RFC9126], whose value is the
   Submission envelope ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission],
   Section "Submission via PAR").  The Mission Intent proposal is the
   envelope's intent member, and an Authority Proposal is the value of
   the authorization_details parameter in the same request.

   Intent-bound evidence in the envelope's evidence array names the
   exact intent_hash of the submitted Intent.  Intent-bound evidence
   obtained for an earlier candidate does not admit a re-shaped Intent
   unless its evidence type explicitly authorizes that transformation
   and defines how its lineage is verified.  Otherwise, a shaping pass
   that changes the Intent needs intent-bound evidence for the Intent it
   actually submits
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-submission-evidence],
   Section "Evidence Binds One Exact Intent").

   The shaper hands its output to the client, which performs the OAuth
   flow (Section 3.2) and MAY also convey a shaping_evidence_hash so
   that the Mission record can cite the evidence (Section 8.1).  The
   issuance profile rejects an unrecognized top-level member of the
   Submission envelope or the Mission Intent, so the client sends the
   hash in the mission_shaping_evidence_hash request parameter of the
   same pushed authorization request
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-consent-evidence],
   Section "Shaping Evidence Hash Parameter"), which a Mission Issuer
   without Consent Evidence ignores.  The value is a client-supplied
   audit commitment, not verified provenance, so conveying it requires
   no trust in the shaper.

9.2.  Mission Issuer Handling

   A Mission Issuer MAY use a shaping_evidence_hash, and any Shaping
   Evidence available to it, as input to the consent disclosure and to
   audit, never to derivation (Section 6.2).  Whatever a shaper
   produced, the Mission Issuer, under the issuance profile:

   *  validates the Mission Intent independently;

   *  does not approve a Mission solely because a shaper produced it;

   *  derives the Authority Set under its own policy; and

   *  refuses, narrows, or requires approval as that profile requires.

   Runtime enforcement [I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-runtime] consumes
   the Mission Intent and the Authority Set on the Mission record, both
   produced by the Mission Issuer, not shaper output.  A runtime that
   reads Shaping Evidence for an authorization decision is misusing it.

10.  Re-Shaping

   A proposal is not always approved as submitted, so shaping is a loop:
   propose, learn what was refused, and propose again.  Three refusal
   signals feed the loop:

   Derivation refusal:  When its policy will not grant a well-formed
      request, the Mission Issuer refuses it with the access_denied
      error code.  This covers a bare Intent that matches no configured
      mapping or whose mapped candidates policy narrows to nothing; the
      same code also reports an Approver who declines
      ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission], Section "Error and
      Challenge Mapping").  An Authority Proposal entry of an
      unsupported type, or one that fails its type's definition, is
      refused with the invalid_authorization_details error code.  That
      is a construction error to correct, not a signal to narrow.
      Narrowing or omitting a valid proposed entry is not a refusal; the
      granted authorization_details reports it
      ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission], Section "Authority
      Proposal").

   Deferred denial:  Under deferred approval, a reviewer that will grant
      only a narrowed subset of the proposal resolves the deferral to
      access_denied, and the client submits a fresh, narrower Mission
      Intent, which the shaper constructs
      ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-approval]).

   Required revision:  Under approval revision, the
      mission_rejected_scope and mission_rejected_authorization_details
      members identify the refused dimensions in machine-readable form.
      The shaper uses them to plan the narrowed revision
      ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-approval-revision]).

   Re-shaping is shaping.  A re-proposal passes through the full
   processing model (Section 4) and is a fresh proposal with fresh
   Shaping Evidence.  Evidence for a re-proposal SHOULD record the
   refusal input that motivated it (refusal_input: the error, the
   resolution, or the rejected dimensions) and MAY reference the
   predecessor proposal's evidence (predecessor_evidence), so that an
   auditor can read the narrowing chain end to end.

   A re-proposal after an authority refusal (a policy access_denied, a
   deferred denial, or a required revision) narrows.  A shaper SHOULD
   NOT re-encode refused authority in new vocabulary.  It MUST NOT use
   iterative resubmission to probe the Mission Issuer's policy boundary
   (Section 12.4).  When a narrower proposal can no longer complete the
   task, the shaper requests clarification, refuses, or emits a partial
   proposal (Section 6.3).  A task that needs more than was refused is a
   new proposal through the normal flow, not a widened retry.

   A re-proposal after a construction error (invalid_request or
   invalid_authorization_details) corrects the encoding instead.  It
   carries the same intended authority and does not broaden it; an entry
   that failed validation has no subset relation to narrow against.

11.  Deployment Considerations

11.1.  Exposing Shaping as a Service

   A deployment that factors shaping into a network service for
   engineering reasons MAY expose it over HTTPS.  The request and
   response formats of such a service are a local implementation detail,
   not an interoperability contract, and their description here is non-
   normative; the authentication requirement below is normative.

   A request typically conveys the task (free text, structured fields,
   or both), the subject and agent on whose behalf the Mission would
   run, deployment context, an optional shaping ceiling, and the
   capability sources the shaper may consult.  A response typically
   conveys an outcome (a shaped proposal, a set of clarifications, or a
   refusal), Shaping Evidence, and, for a proposal, an optional
   shaping_evidence_hash.  A deployment that advertises such an endpoint
   in its metadata might use fields such as mission_shaping_endpoint and
   mission_shaping_profiles_supported.

   Such an endpoint MUST be authenticated when it can reveal sensitive
   task, tenant, or resource information; an anonymous shaping endpoint
   is appropriate only for public, non-sensitive tasks.  The service
   remains client-side and is not a principal (Section 3.1).

11.2.  Declaring the Shaping Posture

   A deployment that runs a shaper can declare the following in its
   Mission Deployment Profile, the deployment-level manifest defined by
   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-architecture]:

   *  whether shaping is in the submission path;

   *  the shaper version policy;

   *  whether Shaping Evidence is retained, and for how long; and

   *  whether Mission records cite shaping_evidence_hash.

   The shaping posture then appears in the same artifact as the
   deployment's other claims, and its absence is visible.

   Shaping is not part of any Mission Assurance Level, and no level
   requires it: the levels are built from issuer-side and runtime-side
   guarantees, and the shaper is client-side
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-architecture]).  Shaping improves the
   input at every level: narrower Missions, clearer consent disclosures,
   and a reviewable trail from request to authority.

12.  Security Considerations

   The Security Considerations of the issuance profile apply.  The
   shaper sits at the boundary where a prompt becomes a Mission Intent,
   and its security properties follow from its role (Section 3.2).

12.1.  Model Output Is Not Authority

   A model-based shaper can draft a Mission Intent, but a deployment
   MUST NOT let model output grant or widen access (Section 3.2).  A
   model-based shaper inherits its model's failure modes (hallucinated
   resources, fabricated constraints, inconsistent paraphrase, and
   sensitivity to small input perturbations), and SHOULD record the
   model identifier and version in Shaping Evidence so that failures can
   be attributed.  The same bound holds at approval: a model's judgment
   enters adjudication only as a recorded input to a deterministic
   policy, and that input can refuse or narrow, never grant or widen
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission]).

12.2.  Shaper Compromise Does Not Directly Grant Authority

   A compromised shaper can produce an arbitrary Mission Intent and
   suppress ambiguity, but it cannot, by itself, cause the Mission
   Issuer to approve that Intent.  A compromised shaper can:

   *  cause spurious proposals to be submitted;

   *  mis-shape an Intent so that the Approver approves a task different
      from the one intended; or

   *  leak prompts through shaper-local logging.

   It cannot:

   *  issue credentials;

   *  set or change Mission lifecycle state;

   *  bypass the approval event; or

   *  cause a Resource Server to act without authority issued by the
      Mission Issuer.

   The Mission Issuer remains the enforcement point for approval: the
   issuance profile requires it to validate the proposal and derive
   authority under its own policy ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission],
   Section "Mission Authority").  Deployments SHOULD monitor shaper
   versions and evidence for anomalous broadening.

12.3.  Prompt Injection and Untrusted Content

   The shaper's input is, by assumption, partly or wholly attacker-
   influenceable.  Prompts can contain pasted content, content the user
   was tricked into typing, or content arriving through a non-prompt
   trigger such as an inbound email or webhook.  Task text, tickets,
   documents, tool descriptions, and catalog metadata can all carry
   instructions aimed at the shaper.  Concrete threats include attempts
   to:

   *  expand target_resources beyond what the user requested;

   *  push expires_at past deployment policy;

   *  suppress a stated constraint; or

   *  select a purpose the user did not choose.

   Mitigations the shaper SHOULD apply:

   1.  Treat all prompt and attachment content as untrusted data, not as
       instructions to the shaper.  Do not let it alter shaper policy or
       override deployment defaults.

   2.  Apply the refusal behavior of Section 7.2 when the input exhibits
       injection patterns.

   3.  Do not echo verbatim prompt-derived instruction text into goal or
       task_bounds that the Approver will read.  Paraphrase, or quote
       with clear attribution, but do not present injected content as if
       it came from the user.

   4.  Use the resolved vocabulary of the capability sources as a hard
       allowlist (Section 5); do not infer new authority types from the
       prompt.

   5.  Record the prompt, the parsed intent, and the chosen defaults in
       Shaping Evidence so that an auditor can reconstruct what the
       shaper saw.

   Injection cannot be fully eliminated at the shaper.  The defense in
   depth is that the Approver sees the Mission Intent in a consent
   disclosure rendered by the Mission Issuer, not by the shaper, before
   authority is bound.  A shaper that builds the Intent truthfully and a
   Mission Issuer that renders the disclosure truthfully together make
   injection visible at the approval step.

12.4.  Silent Broadening and Stale Capability Sources

   The primary failure mode is silent broadening: a vague goal becomes a
   wide Authority Set. The ambiguity rules of Section 7 fail closed by
   requiring clarification, narrowing, or refusal.  A proposal shaped
   against an outdated catalog can also resolve the wrong capability.
   Capability resolutions SHOULD record source digests (Section 5) so
   that approval and runtime enforcement can detect drift.  A shaped
   proposal can also go stale.  When a proposal's freshness bound (for
   example, an expiry, or a source digest that no longer matches) shows
   that it was built against a capability catalog or policy version that
   has since changed, the client SHOULD re-shape it instead of
   submitting it.  Deployments SHOULD re-shape when catalog data is
   volatile.

   Re-shaping adds a loop variant of the same failure: widening by
   retry, in which refused authority is resubmitted in different words
   until something passes, or successive proposals walk the Mission
   Issuer's policy boundary (Section 10).  A deployment SHOULD monitor
   for a requester whose successive proposals for one task broaden;
   Shaping Evidence chained across re-proposals is the record that makes
   such a pattern visible.

12.5.  Shaper-to-Client Integrity in a Multi-Process Client

   In a client where the shaper runs in a different process or on a
   different machine from the OAuth submission code, the step from
   shaper to submission is an in-client boundary.  An attacker between
   the two could alter the Mission Intent before submission.  The
   Mission Issuer still validates the altered Intent and renders its
   consent disclosure, so the Approver remains the final line of
   defense, but the altered Intent will not match what the shaper
   produced.  A deployment MAY apply client-internal integrity
   protection between shaper output and the submission code (a client-
   local signature, a process-isolated channel).  Such protection has no
   semantics at the Mission Issuer and MUST NOT be carried into the
   Mission Intent as if it did (Section 3.2).

13.  Privacy Considerations

   The shaper turns a natural-language prompt, which can carry personal
   data, business-confidential content, or free-form expression, into
   structured artifacts.  Its privacy considerations follow from where
   that content flows.

   The shaper copies or paraphrases prompt content into goal,
   target_resources, and task_bounds.  The Mission Issuer renders these
   in the consent disclosure the Approver reads, and the Mission record
   can retain them.  A shaper SHOULD carry into these members only the
   content needed to describe the task.  It SHOULD NOT widen
   target_resources or echo unrelated prompt content (Section 6.1).  It
   SHOULD avoid copying third-party personal data into goal where a non-
   identifying description suffices.

   Shaping Evidence gathers the prompt, applied defaults, inferences,
   and model outputs into one artifact, so it concentrates sensitive
   content.  The shaper SHOULD apply the client's data-handling policy
   to prompt content, including Shaping Evidence.  Evidence sent outside
   the client's trust domain (for example, to a centralized audit store)
   SHOULD carry the same controls the client applies to any other prompt
   or user-content log.  Deployments SHOULD:

   *  minimize retained raw task text;

   *  prefer digests where full content is not required for audit;

   *  apply access controls equivalent to those used for Mission
      records; and

   *  be able to produce a redacted evidence record for audiences that
      need the provenance of the transformation but not the raw prompt.

   The shaper introduces no identifier of its own and is not a separate
   principal to the Mission Issuer (Section 3.1).  It therefore adds no
   cross-party correlation surface beyond the prompt content it
   processes and the client identity the Mission Issuer already sees.

14.  IANA Considerations

   This document has no IANA actions.  The mission_shaping_evidence_hash
   request parameter is registered by
   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-consent-evidence]; the metadata
   names in Section 11.1 are examples and are not registered.

15.  References

15.1.  Normative References

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-substrate]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission Substrate Requirements", 2026,
              <https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-bound-authorization/
              draft-mcguinness-mission-substrate.html>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission-Bound Authorization for OAuth
              2.0", 2026, <https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-bound-
              authorization/draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission.html>.

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

   [RFC8259]  Bray, T., Ed., "The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data
              Interchange Format", STD 90, RFC 8259,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8259, December 2017,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8259>.

   [RFC8785]  Rundgren, A., Jordan, B., and S. Erdtman, "JSON
              Canonicalization Scheme (JCS)", RFC 8785,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8785, June 2020,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8785>.

15.2.  Informative References

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-aauth]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission Context Binding for AAuth", 2026,
              <https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-bound-authorization/
              draft-mcguinness-mission-aauth.html>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-architecture]
              McGuinness, K., "An Architecture for Mission-Bound
              Authorization", 2026, <https://mcguinness.github.io/
              mission-bound-authorization/draft-mcguinness-mission-
              architecture.html>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-authority-server]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission Authority Server", 2026,
              <https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-bound-authorization/
              draft-mcguinness-mission-authority-server.html>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-metering]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission Consumption Metering", 2026,
              <https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-bound-authorization/
              draft-mcguinness-mission-metering.html>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-runtime]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission-Bound Runtime Enforcement", 2026,
              <https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-bound-authorization/
              draft-mcguinness-mission-runtime.html>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-approval]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission Deferred Approval for OAuth 2.0",
              2026, <https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-bound-
              authorization/draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-
              approval.html>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-approval-revision]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission Approval Revision for OAuth 2.0",
              2026, <https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-bound-
              authorization/draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-approval-
              revision.html>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-child-delegation]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission Child Delegation for OAuth 2.0",
              2026, <https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-bound-
              authorization/draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-child-
              delegation.html>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-consent-evidence]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission Consent Evidence for OAuth 2.0",
              2026, <https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-bound-
              authorization/draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-consent-
              evidence.html>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-derivation-limits]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission Derivation Limits for OAuth 2.0",
              2026, <https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-bound-
              authorization/draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-derivation-
              limits.html>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-progressive]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission Progressive Authorization for
              OAuth 2.0", 2026, <https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-
              bound-authorization/draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-
              progressive.html>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-resource-access]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission Resource Access Profile for OAuth
              2.0", 2026, <https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-bound-
              authorization/draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-resource-
              access.html>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-submission-evidence]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission Intent Submission Evidence for
              OAuth 2.0", 2026, <https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-
              bound-authorization/draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-
              submission-evidence.html>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-template]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission Template for OAuth 2.0", 2026,
              <https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-bound-authorization/
              draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-template.html>.

   [RFC6749]  Hardt, D., Ed., "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework",
              RFC 6749, DOI 10.17487/RFC6749, October 2012,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6749>.

   [RFC7515]  Jones, M., Bradley, J., and N. Sakimura, "JSON Web
              Signature (JWS)", RFC 7515, DOI 10.17487/RFC7515, May
              2015, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7515>.

   [RFC9126]  Lodderstedt, T., Campbell, B., Sakimura, N., Tonge, D.,
              and F. Skokan, "OAuth 2.0 Pushed Authorization Requests",
              RFC 9126, DOI 10.17487/RFC9126, September 2021,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9126>.

   [RFC9396]  Lodderstedt, T., Richer, J., and B. Campbell, "OAuth 2.0
              Rich Authorization Requests", RFC 9396,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9396, May 2023,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9396>.

Appendix A.  Worked Example

   A user asks an agent: "Reconcile the Q3 invoices in the acme-corp
   tenant and post any adjustments up to $500."  The shaper scopes the
   proposal to that one task, bounds the work by invariants instead of
   enumerating invoices it cannot yet know, and proposes only authority
   it can defend from the request.

   The following example shows the Mission Intent proposal, which the
   client sends as the intent member of the Submission envelope:

   {
     "goal":
       "Reconcile acme-corp Q3 invoices; post adjustments up to $500.",
     "target_resources": ["https://erp.example.com"],
     "task_bounds": [
       "Read only invoices in fiscal period 2026-Q3.",
       "Post journal entries of no more than $500.",
       "Tenant scope: acme-corp only."
     ],
     "success_criteria": ["All Q3 invoices for acme-corp reconciled."],
     "purpose": "urn:example:purpose:reconcile",
     "expires_at": "2026-11-05T00:00:00Z"
   }

   The following example shows the Authority Proposal, which the client
   sends as the authorization_details parameter of the same pushed
   authorization request.  It uses the mission_resource_access type and
   its Common Constraints
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-resource-access]):

   [
     { "type": "mission_resource_access",
       "resource": "https://erp.example.com",
       "actions": ["invoices.read"],
       "constraints": {
         "tenant": "acme-corp",
         "resource_issued_after": "2026-07-01T00:00:00Z",
         "resource_issued_before": "2026-09-30T23:59:59Z"
       } },
     { "type": "mission_resource_access",
       "resource": "https://erp.example.com",
       "actions": ["journal-entries.write"],
       "constraints": {
         "tenant": "acme-corp",
         "max_amount": { "amount": "500.00", "currency": "USD" }
       } }
   ]

   The following example shows the Shaping Evidence the shaper records
   for this proposal.  For brevity, it omits proposed_intent and
   proposed_authorization_details, which repeat the two objects above:

   {
     "shaper_id": "mission-shaper.example.com",
     "shaper_version": "policy-bundle-2026-06-30",
     "outcome": "proposal",
     "input_digest":
       "sha-256:InP9sQ7nM2vL4tY6bD1eF8jC5wH0pV2nR3kQ4aB7cDe",
     "input_exclusion_ruleset": "standard-2026-06",
     "user_supplied_facts": [
       "tenant acme-corp",
       "fiscal quarter Q3",
       "adjustments up to $500"
     ],
     "inferred_facts": [
       {
         "fact": "Q3 means fiscal period 2026-Q3",
         "evidence": "the current fiscal year is 2026",
         "confirmation_required": false
       }
     ],
     "capability_resolutions": [
       {
         "requested": "read invoices",
         "resolved": "invoices.read",
         "basis": "catalog",
         "source_uri": "https://erp.example.com/.well-known/tools",
         "source_digest":
           "sha-256:rK6XgVWUx2qYxH37rHShEle6e_sRJcIkdrlaEMoNs_I"
       },
       {
         "requested": "post adjustments",
         "resolved": "journal-entries.write",
         "basis": "catalog",
         "source_uri": "https://erp.example.com/.well-known/tools",
         "source_digest":
           "sha-256:rK6XgVWUx2qYxH37rHShEle6e_sRJcIkdrlaEMoNs_I"
       }
     ],
     "entry_rationales": [
       {
         "applies_to": {
           "resource": "https://erp.example.com",
           "action": "invoices.read"
         },
         "basis": "the request asks to reconcile acme-corp Q3 invoices"
       },
       {
         "applies_to": {
           "resource": "https://erp.example.com",
           "action": "journal-entries.write"
         },
         "basis": "the request asks to post adjustments up to $500"
       }
     ]
   }

   This is only a proposal.  The Mission Issuer, not the shaper,
   validates it, narrows it to policy, and derives the Authority Set the
   agent is bound to; each derived entry narrows an entry the shaper
   proposed.  The free-text task_bounds disclose the same bounds to the
   Approver and grant nothing; the Mission Issuer never parses them.
   The invariants (period, tenant, and amount) bound an open-ended task
   whose individual invoices were unknown when the request was made.
   Had the request not named the tenant, the shaper would have asked the
   requester instead of guessing (Section 7.1).

Appendix B.  Document History

   [[ To be removed from the final specification ]]

   *  Model Output Is Not Authority points to the OAuth binding's
      issuer-side counterpart: a model enters adjudication only as a
      recorded input to a deterministic policy, without changing any
      requirement of this document.

   *  Restructured for readability without changing any requirement.
      Sections follow the processing model, and the shaper's role and
      the Authority Proposal each have one home.  The construction table
      became a per-member list, the two examples became one end-to-end
      appendix showing the Intent, the Authority Proposal, and Shaping
      Evidence, and the Conformance section and "What Shaping Adds and
      Does Not" were folded into Conventions, Deployment Considerations,
      and the Introduction.

   *  Corrected statements against their sources: the derivation-refusal
      codes in Re-Shaping, the AAuth binding's intake (a natural-
      language proposal, not a Mission Intent), the narrowing mode that
      replaced the reproducibility rule, and open-ended invariants,
      which are Authority Proposal constraints rather than task_bounds.

   *  Reconciled the shaping-ceiling outcomes with Ambiguity Handling
      and defined a partial proposal; fixed the condition on the
      broadening record; named the parties the keywords bind; limited
      Shaping Evidence to consent disclosure and audit at the Mission
      Issuer; made signing and integrity envelopes consistent; and moved
      staleness to one client-side rule.

   *  Replaced the "sound shaper" idiom with BCP 14 keywords.  Member
      guidance covers goal_lang and the target_resources containment
      rule, and purpose is chosen only when the request supports it.

   *  Only a re-proposal after an authority refusal narrows; a
      construction error is corrected without broadening.  The
      derivation-limit and intent-bound-evidence guidance follow their
      owning drafts, and an ambiguity narrowing that drops necessary
      authority is a partial proposal.

   *  Renamed the authority_source resolution basis to
      capability_projection; retained evidence is not rewritten.  The
      recommended evidence members are typed, with their applicability,
      new members for the outcome, the emitted proposal, the ceiling,
      the parent Mission, and the re-proposal chain, and a defined
      source_digest.  A shaping ceiling is an authorization_details
      array, and one that must constrain authority requires an Authority
      Proposal.

   *  The evidence hash travels in the mission_shaping_evidence_hash
      pushed authorization request parameter that Consent Evidence
      defines.

   *  Tightened the prose by removing restatement: previews in the
      Introduction, repeated scope and conformance statements, and
      sentences that restated an adjacent requirement.  Two
      clarification requirements that said the same thing are one.  No
      other requirement changed.

Acknowledgments

   This document builds on Mission-Bound Authorization for OAuth 2.0
   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission] and complements Mission-Bound
   Runtime Enforcement [I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-runtime].

Author's Address

   Karl McGuinness
   Independent
   Email: public@karlmcguinness.com
