



Network Working Group                                      K. McGuinness
Internet-Draft                                               Independent
Intended status: Standards Track                            30 June 2026
Expires: 1 January 2027


                Mission Audit Transparency for OAuth 2.0
              draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-audit-latest

Abstract

   Mission-Bound Authorization for OAuth 2.0 and its companions produce
   many evidence records: the approval event, lifecycle transitions,
   consent evidence, runtime decision and execution evidence, and
   harness, orchestration, and child-delegation evidence.  Each is
   signed, but signed is not the same as tamper-evident, append-only, or
   independently verifiable: a holder of the signing key can still
   backdate, drop, or reorder records, and a cross-domain party cannot
   confirm what was recorded without trusting the issuer's own logs.
   This document defines an OPTIONAL Mission Audit Transparency profile.
   It registers Mission evidence into a SCITT Transparency Service as
   Signed Statements, with the Mission as the statement subject so a
   Mission's records form one coherent, append-only feed, and binds the
   resulting Receipt back so any party, in any domain, can verify
   offline that a record was registered and not altered.  To keep
   sensitive task data out of the log, statements commit to the evidence
   by hash rather than carrying it.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   The latest revision of this draft can be found at
   https://mcguinness.github.io/draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission/draft-
   mcguinness-oauth-mission-audit.html.  Status information for this
   document may be found at https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-
   mcguinness-oauth-mission-audit/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/mcguinness/draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 1 January 2027.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Status: An OPTIONAL Extension
   3.  Relationship to the Issuance Profile
   4.  Conventions and Terminology
   5.  Registering Mission Evidence
   6.  The Mission as Subject
   7.  Receipts and Transparent Statements
     7.1.  Verification Failures
   8.  Worked Example
   9.  What Transparency Adds, and Does Not
   10. Conformance
   11. Security Considerations
   12. Privacy Considerations
   13. IANA Considerations
   14. References
     14.1.  Normative References
     14.2.  Informative References
   Acknowledgments
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

   The issuance profile [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission] (the
   "issuance profile") and its companions record evidence at every
   governance and enforcement point.  The evidence is signed, which
   makes a single record attributable and tamper-evident in isolation.
   It does not make the record set as a whole trustworthy: the party
   that holds the signing key can backdate a record, omit an
   inconvenient one, or present different histories to different
   auditors, and nothing a relying party holds detects it.  A cross-
   domain auditor is worse off still, with only the issuer's assertion
   that its logs are complete.

   This document closes that gap by profiling the SCITT architecture
   [I-D.draft-ietf-scitt-architecture] (the "transparency substrate").
   A Mission evidence record is registered with a Transparency Service
   as a Signed Statement; the service appends it to a verifiable, non-
   equivocating log and returns a Receipt proving inclusion.  The Signed
   Statement plus its Receipt is a Transparent Statement that any party
   can verify offline: the record was registered, at a committed time,
   in a log that cannot later drop or reorder it.  The Mission is the
   statement subject, so all of a Mission's evidence is one feed an
   auditor retrieves and replays as a single narrative.

   This adds transparency to evidence the suite already defines; it
   defines no new evidence object.  It is OPTIONAL, and what it proves
   is bounded: transparency makes misbehavior detectable and
   attributable, it does not make a dishonest issuer honest (Section 9).

2.  Status: An OPTIONAL Extension

   This document is OPTIONAL.  A deployment that retains evidence
   without a Transparency Service is fully conformant to the issuance
   profile and its companions and is unaffected by this document.  It
   places no new requirement on them and defines no new evidence; it
   registers the records they already produce.

   A deployment claims this profile only when it registers Mission
   evidence with a Transparency Service.

3.  Relationship to the Issuance Profile

   This document depends normatively on the issuance profile and the
   transparency substrate, and is not implementable alone.  It reuses
   the issuance profile's mission claim and integrity anchors, the
   evidence objects defined across the suite, and the transparency
   substrate's Signed Statement, Receipt, Transparent Statement, and
   subject (feed) constructs and COSE_Sign1 [RFC9052] format.  It uses
   Mission, Mission Issuer, and the evidence objects as the suite
   defines them, and Transparency Service, Signed Statement, Receipt,
   and Transparent Statement as the transparency substrate defines them.

4.  Conventions and Terminology

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

   Mission evidence:  Any evidence record the suite defines, including
      the approval event, lifecycle transitions, consent evidence
      ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-consent-evidence]), and
      runtime decision and execution evidence
      ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-runtime]).

5.  Registering Mission Evidence

   A producer of Mission evidence (the Mission Issuer, a Policy Decision
   Point, a harness, or another component the deployment trusts to
   record) MAY register a record with a Transparency Service as a Signed
   Statement ([I-D.draft-ietf-scitt-architecture]).  The Signed
   Statement's protected header carries, in its CWT Claims:

   *  iss: the producing component's issuer identifier, bound to the key
      the record is signed with; and

   *  sub: the Mission, as defined in Section 6.

   The content_type identifies the evidence object's media type.

   A Signed Statement MUST commit to the evidence by hash, with a
   detached payload, rather than carry the evidence itself
   ([I-D.draft-ietf-scitt-architecture]).  The committed value is the
   evidence's existing integrity anchor or evidence-envelope digest
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission]); where the evidence has no
   such anchor, the producer computes one over the evidence's canonical
   bytes.  This keeps sensitive task data out of the log (Section 12):
   the log proves a specific record was registered at a time, and the
   record is retrieved separately, under access control, and checked
   against the committed hash.

   A deployment claiming this profile MUST register at least the
   governance-critical records: the approval event and every Mission
   lifecycle transition.  It SHOULD also register the runtime decision
   and execution evidence for the action classes it enforces, so the
   action trail is transparent and not only the governance trail.

6.  The Mission as Subject

   The sub of every Signed Statement about a Mission is a stable
   identifier of that Mission, derived from the mission claim's origin
   and id.  All evidence about one Mission shares one sub and forms one
   Transparency Service feed.  An auditor retrieves a Mission's
   complete, ordered, append-only evidence by that sub, and the
   substrate's non-equivocation guarantee means the auditor and the
   deployment see the same feed.

   For that to hold, every producer MUST compute the identical sub.
   This profile fixes a single construction; a producer MUST use it and
   MUST NOT use any other.  The sub is the URI formed by appending the
   literal path segment missions and the Mission id to the origin:

   <origin>/missions/<id>

   The origin is used exactly as it appears in the mission claim, with
   any single trailing slash removed, and the id is appended without
   transformation; the issuance profile constrains mission_id to the
   URL-safe characters [A-Za-z0-9_-]
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission]), so no percent-encoding is
   required.  Because the construction is fixed, independent producers
   writing evidence about the same Mission (the Mission Issuer, a PDP, a
   harness) compute the same sub and write to one feed.

   The sub is a correlator, not a credential; presenting it authorizes
   nothing ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission]).

   A Child Mission
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-child-delegation]) is its own
   Mission with its own id and origin, so its evidence forms its own
   feed; its lifecycle events, including a cascaded transition, appear
   in that feed.  The event that triggered the cascade is in the
   parent's feed, and the child's lineage to the parent is the parent
   member of its mission claim, which an auditor follows to the parent's
   sub to see that trigger.

   Across trust domains a Mission's origin and id are unchanged
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission]), so every producer in every
   domain computes the same sub.  They share one feed only when they
   register with the same Transparency Service.  Where domains register
   with different services, each service holds a partial feed and its
   non-equivocation guarantee is per-service (Section 7); an auditor
   that needs the Mission's whole history reconciles it across those
   services, and a deployment that wants a single coherent feed SHOULD
   have its cross-domain producers register with one shared service.

7.  Receipts and Transparent Statements

   On registration the Transparency Service returns a Receipt, a signed
   inclusion proof ([I-D.draft-ietf-scitt-architecture]).  The producer
   SHOULD retain the Receipt with the evidence, or on the Mission
   record, as a Transparent Statement (the Signed Statement augmented
   with its Receipt).

   A relying party verifies a Transparent Statement offline, without
   contacting the producer or the service:

   1.  verify the Signed Statement signature against the producing
       component's (iss) trust anchor;

   2.  verify the Receipt signature against the Transparency Service's
       published key or configured trust anchor;

   3.  verify the inclusion proof binds the Signed Statement to the log;

   4.  when auditing a specific Mission, confirm sub is that Mission's
       feed (Section 6); and

   5.  retrieve the referenced evidence under access control and verify
       it against the committed detached hash.

   A relying party MUST complete steps 1 through 5 before relying on a
   record as transparent.

7.1.  Verification Failures

   This profile distinguishes an integrity failure, where the
   transparency claim is false, from an audit failure, where the claim
   cannot be fully checked but is not refuted, as the consent evidence
   profile does ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-consent-evidence]):

   *  A failed Signed Statement signature, Receipt signature, or
      inclusion proof (steps 1 through 3), or a committed hash that does
      not match the retrieved evidence (step 5), is an integrity
      failure.  The relying party MUST reject the Transparent Statement
      and MUST NOT treat the record as transparent.

   *  Evidence that cannot be retrieved within the access window (step 5
      incomplete) is an audit failure, not an integrity failure.  Steps
      1 through 3 still establish that the record was registered, at a
      committed time, in a non-equivocating log; only the content check
      is incomplete.  The relying party MUST NOT treat the record as
      content-verified, and MUST NOT treat unretrievable evidence as
      evidence of tampering.

   *  A producer or Transparency Service key that is not among the
      relying party's trust anchors leaves the corresponding step
      unverified rather than failed: the statement then asserts no more
      than the relying party can check.

   A deployment MAY register the same evidence with more than one
   Transparency Service and retain multiple Receipts; a relying party
   that distrusts one service can then rely on another, and equivocation
   by one service is detectable against the others.

8.  Worked Example

   At the approval event for Mission
   msn_8RfX2Lqv9TqMv4z7sA2bN1k0YpEdHc9-, the Mission Issuer records
   Consent Evidence and registers it.  It does not put the disclosure in
   the log; it signs a Signed Statement whose payload is detached and
   whose content_type names the evidence, committing to the evidence by
   its consent_rendering_hash.  The sub is the Mission feed, derived
   from the Mission origin and id; the iss is the Mission Issuer.
   Protected header, in COSE EDN ([RFC9052]):

   {
     / alg /          1: -7,             / ES256 /
     / content_type / 3: "application/mission-consent-evidence+json",
     / kid /          4: h'61732d6b65792d323032362d7133',
     / CWT Claims /  15: {
       / iss / 1: "https://as.example.com",
       / sub / 2: "https://as.example.com/missions/msn_8RfX2Lqv9TqMv4z7sA2bN1k0YpEdHc9-"
     }
   }

   The signed payload is detached; the committed value is the evidence's
   consent_rendering_hash, sha-
   256:CnS3nT9sQ7nM2vL4tY6bD1eF8jC5wH0pV2nR3kQ4xVz.  The Transparency
   Service appends the statement and returns a Receipt, a COSE_Sign1
   with an inclusion proof in its unprotected header, which the Mission
   Issuer keeps with the evidence as a Transparent Statement.

   As the Mission proceeds, its other producers write to the same sub:
   the PDP registers a decision-evidence commitment when it permits the
   journal-entries.write, and the Mission Issuer registers a lifecycle-
   change commitment when alice later completes the Mission.  Querying
   the Transparency Service for that one sub returns the Mission's whole
   history, in order, append-only:

   sub = https://as.example.com/missions/msn_8RfX2Lqv9TqMv4z7sA2bN1k0YpEdHc9-

     #1  approval-event        iss=as.example.com    t0
     #2  consent-evidence      iss=as.example.com    t0
     #3  decision-evidence     iss=pdp.example.com   t0+6h
     #4  lifecycle: completed  iss=as.example.com    t0+6h

   A compliance auditor in another domain, holding none of these
   deployments' logs, takes the Transparent Statement for #2, verifies
   the Receipt against the Transparency Service's published key and the
   inclusion proof, retrieves the Consent Evidence under access control,
   and checks it against the committed consent_rendering_hash.  The
   auditor now knows that exact disclosure was registered at t0 and has
   not since been altered, dropped, or reordered, without trusting the
   Mission Issuer's own records.

   Two failures are distinct (Section 7.1).  If the retrieved Consent
   Evidence hashes to a value other than the committed
   consent_rendering_hash, the retained record was altered after
   registration: an integrity failure, and the auditor rejects it.  If
   the record cannot be retrieved at all, the auditor still knows from
   the Receipt that record #2 was registered at t0 and not reordered,
   but cannot confirm its content: an audit failure, not proof of
   tampering.

9.  What Transparency Adds, and Does Not

   Transparency makes the evidence set tamper-evident and independently
   verifiable: a registered record cannot be silently backdated,
   dropped, or reordered, the feed is the same for every auditor, and a
   cross-domain party verifies a record without trusting the producer's
   logs, which a bare signature over a narrowed token cannot give it
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission]).

   It does not make a dishonest producer honest.  A producer can
   register a false record; transparency makes the false record
   permanent, attributable, and visible to every auditor, which is
   accountability, not prevention, the transparency substrate's own
   model ([I-D.draft-ietf-scitt-architecture]).  It also proves only
   that a record was registered, not that the action the record
   describes occurred or was authorized; that is the evidence's own
   semantics.  And because statements commit by hash, a Receipt without
   the retrievable evidence proves only that some record was logged, not
   what it said.

10.  Conformance

   A producer conforming to this profile MUST:

   *  register Mission evidence as Signed Statements with a detached
      hash commitment, never the evidence in the clear (Section 5);

   *  set sub to the Mission feed by the fixed construction of
      Section 6;

   *  set iss to its own issuer identifier, bound to the signing key;
      and

   *  register at least the approval event and every Mission lifecycle
      transition (Section 5).

   A relying party conforming to this profile MUST:

   *  perform verification steps 1 through 5 of Section 7 before relying
      on a record as transparent;

   *  treat a signature, Receipt, inclusion-proof, or committed-hash
      mismatch as an integrity failure and reject the record; and

   *  treat unretrievable evidence as an audit failure, not as evidence
      of tampering (Section 7.1).

11.  Security Considerations

   The transparency substrate's security considerations apply.  This
   profile adds:

   *  Accountability, not prevention.  Transparency detects and
      attributes tampering and omission after the fact; it does not stop
      a producer from registering a false record (Section 9).

   *  Transparency Service trust.  A single service is trusted not to
      equivocate; a deployment that needs that property checked SHOULD
      register with multiple independent services (Section 7).

   *  Completeness.  Transparency proves what was registered, not that
      everything was registered.  A producer that omits a record cannot
      forge inclusion, but the gap is visible only if an auditor expects
      the record; a deployment SHOULD register evidence on a predictable
      schedule so omissions stand out in the feed.

   *  Receipt and key management.  A Receipt is only as trustworthy as
      the Transparency Service key that signs it; relying parties manage
      those trust anchors as they do the producers'.

12.  Privacy Considerations

   A Transparency Service log is append-only and may be widely readable,
   so nothing registered can be redacted later.  A producer MUST NOT
   register Mission evidence in the clear; it registers a hash
   commitment with a detached payload (Section 5), and the evidence,
   which can carry task descriptions, principals, and high-risk
   authority, is retained separately under access control.  Even the
   committed metadata leaks information: the sub is a durable per-
   Mission correlator and the registration times reveal a Mission's
   activity pattern.  The sub construction is fixed (Section 6) and does
   not expose the Subject directly, so the concern is not Subject
   leakage but that the Mission's durable identifier, its existence, and
   its registration cadence are visible in the log.  A deployment SHOULD
   weigh whether those are sensitive, and whether the origin and id that
   compose the sub reveal more than intended, before registering a
   Mission's evidence in a shared or widely readable log.

13.  IANA Considerations

   This document makes no IANA request.  It reuses the Signed Statement
   and Receipt media types of the transparency substrate
   ([I-D.draft-ietf-scitt-architecture]) and the evidence media types of
   the suite, and derives the sub by profile rather than registering a
   new identifier.

14.  References

14.1.  Normative References

   [I-D.draft-ietf-scitt-architecture]
              Birkholz, H., Delignat-Lavaud, A., Fournet, C., Deshpande,
              Y., and S. Lasker, "An Architecture for Trustworthy and
              Transparent Digital Supply Chains", Work in Progress,
              Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-scitt-architecture-22, 10
              October 2025, <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/
              draft-ietf-scitt-architecture-22>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission-Bound Authorization for OAuth
              2.0", Work in Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-mcguinness-
              oauth-mission, 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-mcguinness-
              oauth-mission>.

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

   [RFC9052]  Schaad, J., "CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE):
              Structures and Process", STD 96, RFC 9052,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9052, August 2022,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9052>.

14.2.  Informative References

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-child-delegation]
              McGuinness, K., "Child Mission Delegation for OAuth 2.0",
              Work in Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-mcguinness-oauth-
              mission-child-delegation, 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-mcguinness-
              oauth-mission-child-delegation>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-consent-evidence]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission Consent Evidence for OAuth 2.0",
              Work in Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-mcguinness-oauth-
              mission-consent-evidence, 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-mcguinness-
              oauth-mission-consent-evidence>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-runtime]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission-Bound Runtime Enforcement for
              OAuth 2.0", Work in Progress, Internet-Draft, draft-
              mcguinness-oauth-mission-runtime, 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-mcguinness-
              oauth-mission-runtime>.

Acknowledgments

   This document is part of the Mission-Bound Authorization for OAuth
   2.0 work and profiles the SCITT architecture to make Mission evidence
   transparent and independently verifiable.

Author's Address

   Karl McGuinness
   Independent
   Email: public@karlmcguinness.com
