



Web Authorization Protocol                                 K. McGuinness
Internet-Draft                                               Independent
Intended status: Standards Track                          23 August 2026
Expires: 24 February 2027


                    Mission Expansion for OAuth 2.0
            draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-expansion-latest

Abstract

   Mission-Bound Authorization for OAuth 2.0 commits a Mission's
   authority at a single approval event and defers widening: enlarging
   authority requires a new approval, a successor Mission.  This
   document defines that successor mechanism as an optional, layered
   extension to the issuance profile.  When an action falls outside an
   active Mission's Authority Set but the deployment's governance policy
   permits widening, a client initiates expansion through an [RFC8693]
   token exchange: it presents the predecessor Mission's sender-
   constrained Mission-bound access token as the subject_token, proving
   possession of the predecessor's authority, and a fresh approval
   records a successor Mission.  The successor carries a predecessor
   member on its mission claim linking it to the Mission it replaces;
   when the successor activates the predecessor enters a terminal
   superseded state, so an expansion that never completes leaves the
   predecessor active.  Expansion never widens authority without a new
   consent: the successor's authority comes only from its own approval.
   A deployment that never expands a Mission is unaffected by this
   document.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   The latest revision of this draft can be found at
   https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-bound-authorization/draft-
   mcguinness-oauth-mission-expansion.html.  Status information for this
   document may be found at https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-
   mcguinness-oauth-mission-expansion/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/mcguinness/mission-bound-authorization.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 24 February 2027.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
     1.1.  Status: an optional extension
     1.2.  Relationship to the issuance profile
     1.3.  Scope
   2.  Status: An Optional Profile
   3.  Conventions and Terminology
   4.  Expansion Overview
     4.1.  Protocol flow
     4.2.  Eligibility
     4.3.  Expansion is not step-up
   5.  The Expansion Request
     5.1.  The token exchange request
     5.2.  Proving possession of the predecessor
     5.3.  Predecessor must be active
   6.  Adjudication
     6.1.  Mission Issuer verification order
     6.2.  Completion modes
     6.3.  The deferred window
     6.4.  Successor expiry
   7.  The Predecessor Mission Reference
   8.  The Superseded Predecessor State
     8.1.  No implicit rollback
   9.  Replacement Expansion
   10. Continuing Under an Independently Approved Mission
   11. Concurrent Expansion Reconciliation
   12. Creation Idempotency
     12.1.  The operation fingerprint
     12.2.  The durable reservation
     12.3.  Recovery is delivery
     12.4.  Revalidation and lookup order
     12.5.  Tombstone retention
   13. Expansion Denial Reasons
   14. Worked Example
   15. Conformance
   16. Security Considerations
     16.1.  Predecessor confusion
     16.2.  Possession proof
     16.3.  Authority comes only from new consent
     16.4.  Race against predecessor lifecycle
     16.5.  Duplicate creation
     16.6.  Expansion versus step-up
     16.7.  Policy probing
     16.8.  Audit linkage
   17. Privacy Considerations
     17.1.  Predecessor-chain correlation
     17.2.  Related-work correlation
     17.3.  Disclosure of the broadened task
   18. IANA Considerations
     18.1.  Mission Lifecycle States Registration
     18.2.  Mission Denial Reasons Registry
   Acknowledgments
   References
     Normative References
     Informative References
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

   Mission-Bound Authorization for OAuth 2.0
   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission] (the "issuance profile") makes a
   Mission a first-class OAuth artifact: a structured, human-approved,
   integrity-bound task whose authority bounds and outlives every token
   an agent derives.  It commits the Authority Set once, at the approval
   event, and deliberately defines no mid-stream authorization upgrade.
   As that profile states, widening authority requires a new approval, a
   successor Mission, as specified by this companion profile.

   This document is that successor mechanism.  A task an agent pursues
   does not always stay within the authority approved for it: the agent
   encounters an action the approved Authority Set does not cover, yet
   one the deployment's governance policy would permit under a fresh
   consent.  Expansion is the governed path from that shortfall to a new
   approval.  It does not patch or widen the existing Mission; it
   creates a new Mission, through the issuance profile's own flow,
   linked to the one it replaces.

   The mechanism reuses the issuance profile end to end.  An expansion
   carries a new Mission Intent in an [RFC8693] token exchange
   (Section 5) bound to the predecessor by possession of the
   predecessor's Mission-bound access token, leading to a fresh approval
   event ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission]) with its own integrity
   anchors and Mission record.  The successor's authority comes only
   from that approval.  This document adds exactly three things on top
   of the issuance profile: a way to bind an expansion request to the
   predecessor it expands; a predecessor lineage member on the resulting
   Mission; and a terminal superseded predecessor state with the
   reconciliation rules that keep concurrent expansions consistent.

1.1.  Status: an optional extension

   This document is optional.  It is a layered extension to the issuance
   profile, not a change to it.  A deployment that implements
   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission] and never expands a Mission is
   fully conformant to that profile and is unaffected by this document:
   it issues no expansion request, records no predecessor member, and
   never enters the superseded state this document introduces.  The
   issuance profile's lifecycle (active, revoked, expired) is complete
   without expansion; the superseded state defined here (Section 8) is
   relevant only when expansion is used.

   A Mission Issuer claims conformance to this document only when it
   adjudicates expansion; otherwise it remains a plain issuance-profile
   Mission Issuer.  Nothing here places a new requirement back on the
   issuance profile.

1.2.  Relationship to the issuance profile

   This document depends normatively on the issuance profile and is not
   implementable alone.  It reuses, without restating, that profile's
   Mission Intent, submission via PAR, authority derivation, approval
   event with its integrity anchors, Mission record, the mission claim,
   the subset rule, and the lifecycle and issuance gating.  It uses the
   terms Agent (Client), Subject, Approver, Mission Issuer, Mission
   Intent, Authority Set, Mission, and derived token as defined there.

   Where this document refers to "the issuance profile" without a
   section, it means [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission] as a whole.

1.3.  Scope

   This document defines:

   *  the expansion request: how a client initiates a successor Mission
      and how that request is bound to the predecessor's grant
      (Section 5);

   *  the predecessor lineage member on the successor's mission claim
      and Mission record (Section 7);

   *  the terminal superseded predecessor state and its transition
      (Section 8);

   *  replacement expansion as the mode, with branch expansion deferred
      (Section 9);

   *  concurrent-expansion reconciliation, with a closed set of
      reconciliation status codes (Section 11); and

   *  the expansion denial reasons (Section 13).

   This document does NOT define:

   *  a way to widen an existing Mission in place; expansion always
      creates a new Mission;

   *  runtime per-action enforcement or the classification of a denial
      as expansion-eligible; that is the runtime layer's concern
      (Section 4.2, [I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-runtime]);

   *  branch expansion, in which predecessor and successor both remain
      active (Section 9);

   *  multi-hop or cross-domain expansion; an expansion is adjudicated
      by the predecessor's Mission Issuer (its issuer); or

   *  policy-adjudicated expansion within a pre-consented authority
      ceiling; that is progressive authorization, defined by an
      experimental companion
      ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-progressive]).  Under this
      document alone, every expansion is adjudicated by a fresh human
      approval.

2.  Status: An Optional Profile

   Adopt this document when approved authority will predictably need to
   widen mid-task via fresh approval.  It depends normatively on
   Mission- Bound Authorization for OAuth 2.0 and is not adoptable
   alone.

3.  Conventions and Terminology

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

   All JSON shown in this document is non-normative and illustrative;
   the member definitions in the surrounding text are authoritative.

   The following terms apply in addition to those inherited from the
   issuance profile (Section 1.2).

   Predecessor Mission:  The active Mission an expansion enlarges.  It
      is the baseline for the successor and is referenced by the
      successor's mission.predecessor member (Section 7).

   Successor Mission:  The Mission a replacement expansion creates
      through a fresh approval event.  It carries its own Authority Set,
      integrity anchors, and mission_id, and a predecessor member
      linking it to the predecessor (Section 7).

   Expansion request:  An [RFC8693] token exchange that carries a
      Mission Intent and presents the predecessor Mission's Mission-
      bound access token as the subject_token, asking the Mission Issuer
      to adjudicate a successor (Section 5).

4.  Expansion Overview

4.1.  Protocol flow

    Agent (client)               Mission Issuer (AS)
        |                            |
        | denied: action outside     |
        | active Mission's authority |
        |                            |
        | 1. token exchange -------> | resolve predecessor from
        |    subject_token =         | subject_token; verify
        |    predecessor's Mission-  | possession (subject_token
        |    bound access token;     | cnf); gate predecessor
        |    mission_intent          | active
        |                            |
        |                            | 2. complete, one of:
        |                            |
        |    <-- authz_pending ----- | (a) deferred: fresh async
        |    ---- poll ------------> |     approval via DTR;
        |    <-- access token ------ |     token on approval
        |                            |
        |    <-- (front channel) --> | (b) interactive: the
        |                            |     deployment's front-
        |                            |     channel approval
        |                            |
        |         at activation: successor active,
        |         predecessor superseded (atomic)
        v

   The request is an [RFC8693] token exchange bound to the predecessor
   by possession of the predecessor's Mission-bound access token
   (Section 5), so the Mission Issuer adjudicates a successor of a
   specific predecessor rather than an unrelated new Mission.  An
   expansion always widens authority, so a fresh consent supplies the
   broader authority, obtained through the deferred token response
   ([I-D.draft-gerber-oauth-deferred-token-response]) or the
   deployment's interactive approval (Section 6.2); a request that
   widens nothing is refused (Section 6.1).  The successor's authority
   comes only from that consent.  Supersession is deferred to
   activation: the successor activates and the predecessor becomes
   superseded atomically when the successor's authority is issued, so an
   expansion that never completes leaves the predecessor active
   (Section 8).

4.2.  Eligibility

   A client initiates expansion after an action is denied because the
   requested authority is outside the active Mission's Authority Set and
   the deployment's governance policy permits widening it.  This
   document does not define how a denial is classified as expansion-
   eligible; that classification belongs to the component that denies
   the action.

   A Mission-aware Resource Server enforces the token's authority
   statelessly and refuses an out-of-bounds action with its usual
   insufficient-authority error ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission]).
   The runtime enforcement profile
   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-runtime] is one source of an expansion-
   eligible denial: in that profile a deny is terminal for the attempted
   action, and the authority-expandable-denial escalation that turns
   such a deny into an expansion is named there as out of scope.  This
   document defines that expansion.  This document does not require any
   particular denial source: a client that knows, by any means, that an
   action needs authority the active Mission lacks MAY initiate
   expansion.  Whether the Mission Issuer adjudicates a successor
   remains its decision (Section 6); an eligible denial is not an
   authorization in favor of expansion.

4.3.  Expansion is not step-up

   Expansion is a governance operation.  It is distinct from
   authentication step-up [RFC9470].  A request denied because an acr or
   amr constraint requires fresh authentication is satisfied by step-up,
   not by expansion: the Authority Set does not change.  A request
   denied because the requested authority is not in the active Mission's
   Authority Set requires expansion: the Authority Set must be enlarged
   through a new approval event.  The two are not interchangeable;
   Section 16.6 treats the security consequence of conflating them.

5.  The Expansion Request

   To expand a predecessor Mission, the requester MUST prove possession
   of the predecessor Mission's authority through a sender-constrained
   proof, and a reusable bearer refresh credential MUST NOT be the
   carrier of that proof.  This is the abstract requirement expansion
   rests on, stated once and independent of any wire binding.

   On the OAuth wire this document binds that requirement to an
   [RFC8693] token exchange at the token endpoint (Section 5.1), in
   which the predecessor's own sender-constrained Mission-bound access
   token is the subject_token and possession is proven against that
   token's confirmation key (Section 5.2).  The Mission Authority Server
   profile ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-authority-server]) binds the
   same abstract requirement to an authenticated-client submission on
   its token-less surface; the two are peer bindings of one requirement.

5.1.  The token exchange request

   A client initiates an expansion as an [RFC8693] token exchange at the
   token endpoint.  The request carries:

   grant_type:  REQUIRED. urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:token-
      exchange, the [RFC8693] token-exchange grant type.

   requested_token_type:  REQUIRED. urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-
      type:access_token.  This value selects expansion: the Mission
      Issuer returns the successor's Mission-bound access token.  Child
      creation, the peer operation on the same grant, is selected by the
      JWT token type
      ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-child-delegation]).

   subject_token:  REQUIRED.  The predecessor Mission's sender-
      constrained Mission-bound access token.  The Mission Issuer
      resolves the predecessor from this token (Section 5.2); this
      token, not any identifier, selects the predecessor
      authoritatively.

   subject_token_type:  REQUIRED. urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-
      type:access_token.  The Mission Issuer MUST reject any other value
      with invalid_request.  A refresh token MUST NOT be accepted as the
      subject_token for an expansion: the possession proof is a sender-
      constrained access token, never a reusable bearer refresh
      credential.

   actor_token:  OPTIONAL.  A token identifying the acting agent, per
      [RFC8693].  Where it is absent, the request's client
      authentication identifies the acting agent.  This document carries
      the acting-agent identity; it does not restructure any act chain.
      A successor Mission begins its own act chain afresh under its own
      approval.

   actor_token_type:  REQUIRED when actor_token is present, per
      [RFC8693].

   mission_intent:  REQUIRED.  The successor's Mission Intent Submission
      envelope, per [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission]: its intent is
      the successor's Mission Intent, and its OPTIONAL evidence array
      carries Intent Submission Evidence under that profile's dispatch,
      refusal, and never-authority rules.  The Intent describes the
      broadened task: the goal, resources, constraints, and controls the
      successor needs, including the authority the denied action
      required.  The Mission Issuer derives the successor's Authority
      Set from this Intent and bounds it by policy exactly as for any
      Mission; this document adds no authority-derivation rule.

   authorization_details:  OPTIONAL.  The successor's authority
      proposal: the standard [RFC9396] parameter carried on the same
      token request, itself ordinary [RFC9396] token-request usage.
      This parameter is this exchange's proposal carriage, replacing the
      issuance profile's PAR-only carriage rule; that profile's
      validation, derivation, recording, and hashing semantics apply
      unchanged ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission]).  It is a
      proposal, never authority: the Mission Issuer derives and bounds
      the successor's Authority Set by policy regardless of what was
      proposed.  A successor created from an exchange carrying one
      records proposed_authority and proposal_hash.

   predecessor:  OPTIONAL.  A string.  The mission_id of the
      predecessor, a non-authoritative cross-check and audit value only.
      The Mission Issuer resolves and selects the predecessor from
      subject_token (Section 5.2); when predecessor is present the
      Mission Issuer MUST verify it names that same resolved Mission and
      refuse a mismatch with invalid_grant. predecessor does not select
      or authorize a predecessor: a client MUST NOT be able to expand a
      Mission merely by naming its mission_id.

   creation_request_id:  REQUIRED.  The creation idempotency identifier:
      an ASCII string of at most 255 octets, opaque to the Mission
      Issuer beyond equality, that identifies this one Mission-creation
      operation across every completion mode (Section 12).  At least 128
      bits of client-generated randomness is RECOMMENDED; a UUID
      [RFC9562] satisfies this.  The Mission Issuer MUST refuse an
      exchange missing it with invalid_request.

   The presence of mission_intent on a token exchange marks it as a
   Mission-creation exchange under this suite; an exchange whose
   subject_token resolves to a Mission and that carries no child_actor
   is an expansion.  A token exchange carrying both a predecessor cross-
   check and the child-delegation profile's child_actor
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-child-delegation]) MUST be
   refused with invalid_request: the operations do not combine.

   The possession proof of Section 5.2 is presented only on the token
   endpoint's authenticated back channel and MUST NOT appear on any
   front channel.  Where a deployment completes an expansion through its
   retained interactive approval (Section 6.2), the front-channel
   approval ceremony carries only the consent decision; the predecessor
   binding and possession proof are established by the token exchange in
   every completion mode.

5.2.  Proving possession of the predecessor

   The issuance profile resolves a Mission from the credential the
   client presents, never from a client-supplied mission_id
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission], grant binding).  An expansion
   resolves the predecessor from the subject_token the client presents
   and proves possession against that token's own confirmation:

   1.  The Mission Issuer MUST resolve the predecessor Mission from
       subject_token, applying the issuance profile's token-to-Mission
       resolution for a Mission-bound access token.

   2.  The Mission Issuer MUST verify that the presenter controls the
       subject_token's own confirmation key: a [RFC9449] DPoP proof
       whose key matches the token's cnf jkt, or the [RFC8705] mutual-
       TLS certificate whose thumbprint matches the token's cnf
       x5t#S256.  Possession is proven against the token's confirmation,
       a sender-constrained proof; it is not read from any Mission-
       record field.  A subject_token that is not sender-constrained
       cannot carry this proof, so the Mission Issuer MUST refuse it
       with invalid_request.

   3.  Where the proof is a DPoP proof, its jti is single-use per
       [RFC9449]: the Mission Issuer MUST reject a replayed proof.

   4.  When predecessor is present, the Mission Issuer MUST verify the
       resolved Mission is the one it names (Section 5.1).

   The confirmation key, not the identifier, authorizes the expansion.
   A client that does not hold the predecessor's Mission-bound access
   token and its sender-constraint key cannot present a valid
   subject_token and so cannot expand the predecessor.  Establishing
   this at the token exchange, before any approval, means the Mission
   Issuer confirms the predecessor is real, active, and possessed before
   prompting an Approver, so expansion cannot drive approval prompts
   against another party's Mission.

   Stated as the eligibility rule rather than a consequence: this
   profile's expansion requires a sender-constrained Mission-bound
   access token to present, and a deployment that issues only bearer
   tokens for a Mission, or none, forgoes it.  Nothing else is lost.
   Succession stays reachable through a fresh approval, a new Mission
   whose disclosure references the work it continues, since the
   successor's authority comes only from the fresh consent in any case;
   and the Subject or an administrator acts on the predecessor at the
   management plane regardless, whose standing is the authenticated
   principal, never a token's possession
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-status]).  The possession proof
   gates the proposal channel (who may put an expansion wearing this
   predecessor's name in front of the Approver, and who may trigger the
   atomic supersession), never the authority: no proof failure can widen
   anything.

   The Mission Issuer MUST record each expansion presentation and count
   it toward the deployment's anomaly detection, and the per-predecessor
   rate limit (Section 16.7) applies unconditionally.  Because the
   subject_token is a short-lived, sender-constrained access token
   rather than a reusable refresh credential, presenting it for
   expansion carries no refresh rotation or replay-detection
   interaction: it is consumed only to resolve and bind the predecessor,
   never to refresh.

   Because expansion binds to the predecessor's Mission-bound access
   token, it needs no opaque expansion ticket or other new bearer: the
   predecessor is identified and authorized by a credential the client
   already holds and can prove possession of, and a client cannot name
   an arbitrary predecessor.

5.3.  Predecessor must be active

   The Mission Issuer MUST resolve the predecessor from subject_token
   and verify it is in the active state before adjudicating, and MUST
   re-verify it at completion when adjudication is deferred or
   interactive (Section 6.3).  An expansion request against a
   predecessor that is not active MUST be refused with invalid_grant and
   a reconciliation status (Section 11):

   *  if the predecessor made a terminal exit from active (it is
      revoked, expired, or already superseded, Section 8), the status is
      predecessor_state_changed;

   *  if the predecessor is in a non-terminal non-active state, for
      example suspended where the Mission Status profile
      [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-status] is deployed, the
      status is predecessor_not_active.

   Issuance gating in the issuance profile already refuses to derive
   from a non-active Mission; this rule extends the same gate to
   adjudicating an expansion of one.

6.  Adjudication

   Adjudication of an expansion derives the successor's Authority Set
   from the submitted Mission Intent and bounds it by policy, exactly as
   for any Mission.  The successor's authority is whatever this
   derivation and the completion of Section 6.2 yield; it is not the
   predecessor's authority plus a delta computed by this document.  A
   deployment that wants the successor to retain the predecessor's
   authority expresses that authority in the expansion Mission Intent so
   the derivation reproduces it.

   The Mission Issuer processes an expansion token exchange in the
   verification order of Section 6.1 and completes it in one of the
   modes of Section 6.2.

6.1.  Mission Issuer verification order

   The Mission Issuer MUST evaluate an expansion token exchange in this
   order, refusing on the first failure:

   1.  Parse the exchange, require subject_token with subject_token_type
       = urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:access_token, rejecting a
       refresh token, and require creation_request_id (Section 5.1).

   2.  Resolve the predecessor Mission from subject_token (Section 5.2).

   3.  Verify possession: the presenter controls the subject_token's own
       confirmation key ([RFC9449] DPoP proof jkt, or [RFC8705] mTLS
       x5t#S256), and, for a DPoP proof, the proof jti is single-use
       (Section 5.2).

   4.  Verify the acting agent (actor_token, or the request's client
       authentication) is authorized to request expansion of this
       predecessor.

   5.  Look up the (client, creation_request_id) reservation and, where
       one exists, recover the recorded operation instead of proceeding
       (Section 12).  The lookup follows client authentication and
       possession verification and precedes the predecessor lifecycle
       gate of step 6 (Section 12.4).

   6.  Verify the predecessor is active (Section 5.3) and, when
       predecessor is present, that it names the resolved Mission.

   7.  Derive the successor's Authority Set under policy from the
       submitted Mission Intent (Section 6) and verify that it widens
       the predecessor: when the derived requested authority is a subset
       of the predecessor's own Effective Authority Set, refuse the
       exchange with the nothing_to_expand denial reason, as there is
       nothing to expand (Section 13).

   8.  Complete per Section 6.2; at a deferred or interactive
       completion, re-verify the predecessor's Mission state before
       issuing (Section 6.3).

   On any failure the Mission Issuer MUST refuse with invalid_request,
   invalid_grant, or invalid_token as appropriate, and MUST NOT create a
   successor.

   The predecessor's Effective Authority Set, the right-hand side of
   step 7's subset test, is the term
   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-status] defines: the approved
   Authority Set after applying every issuer-held narrowing mechanism
   the deployment runs, including the containment profile's overlay
   where deployed ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-containment]).

   Authority the predecessor once held but containment or discharge has
   removed is therefore never nothing_to_expand: a request for it widens
   the effective set and is expansion-eligible.  Such authority returns
   only through a fresh-consent successor, with the predecessor's
   containment history surfaced in the expansion consent disclosure
   (Section 6.2, [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-containment]),
   never by re-deriving under the predecessor.

6.2.  Completion modes

   An expansion completes in one of two modes, each obtaining the fresh
   approval the successor's authority requires.  The deferred token
   response is a completion mode, not a replacement: both modes rest on
   the same possession-proven token exchange (Section 5), and the
   interactive path is retained.

   Deferred:  When approval is asynchronous, the Mission Issuer returns
      the deferred token response of the family's Mission Deferred
      Approval substrate
      ([I-D.draft-gerber-oauth-deferred-token-response], profiled for
      Missions by [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-approval]):
      authorization_pending with a polling interval.  The Approver acts
      on the deployment's asynchronous review surface; the client polls;
      the poll resolves to the successor's access token on approval, or
      to access_denied or expired_token.  This document references that
      substrate and does not redefine it.

   Interactive:  When approval is interactive, the Mission Issuer runs
      the deployment's existing front-channel approval event, the
      issuance profile's own approval ceremony
      ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission]), issuing an authorization
      code the client redeems to obtain the successor's authority.  This
      is the interactive path retained from earlier revisions of this
      document.

   This document defines no synchronous exchange completion.  An
   expansion response is a successor or a refusal, never a token derived
   under the predecessor: a request whose derived authority is a subset
   of the predecessor's own Effective Authority Set is refused with
   nothing_to_expand (Section 6.1, Section 13).  Policy-adjudicated
   expansion within a pre-consented authority ceiling is the
   experimental progressive authorization companion's concern
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-progressive]): an in-ceiling
   drawdown completes through the retained interactive path with the
   approval prompt skipped, as that companion defines.

   Whichever mode completes, obtaining the fresh approval means the
   Mission Issuer authenticates the Approver, obtains fresh consent for
   the derived Authority Set, satisfies any controls.acr, and renders
   the Subject when the Approver is not the Subject, per the issuance
   profile's approval event.  The consent disclosure MUST reflect the
   successor's authority being adjudicated.  Expansion never widens
   authority without a new consent: if the Approver declines, no
   successor is created and the predecessor is untouched (Section 13).

   At completion the Mission Issuer computes the successor's integrity
   anchors (intent_hash, authority_hash, and, where the exchange carried
   an authority proposal, proposal_hash) and, at the point the
   successor's authority is issued (the resolving poll for a deferred
   completion, or the code redemption for an interactive completion),
   creates the successor Mission record in the active state, with its
   predecessor member set (Section 7), atomically with the predecessor's
   transition to superseded (Section 8).  Until the successor activates
   the predecessor remains active; an expansion that never completes,
   whose deferred approval lapses, or whose authorization code is never
   redeemed or expires, creates no successor and leaves the predecessor
   active.

   Whichever mode is selected, the exchange's creation_request_id
   reservation (Section 12) makes completion recoverable: a client that
   loses the response recovers the one committed operation, never a
   second creation.

6.3.  The deferred window

   A completion may occur later than the request, across a deferred or
   interactive approval window.  Two rules govern that window:

   *  The predecessor's Mission state MUST be re-verified at issuance
      (completion), not only at request time.  A predecessor that was
      terminated or contained during the window MUST fail completion,
      per the compare-and-set of Section 11.  This preserves the new-
      derivation kill a terminal predecessor state effects: a deferred
      approval MUST NOT become a bypass of it.

   *  Expiry of the subject_token during the window MUST NOT gate
      completion.  The predecessor binding and the possession proof are
      evaluated and recorded at request time (Section 5.2); the short-
      lived subject_token expiring while approval is pending does not
      invalidate the pending exchange.  The re-verification above is of
      the predecessor's Mission state, not of the expired token.

   Supersession is a terminal exit from active, so it is a terminal
   cascade trigger for the predecessor's entire delegation tree under
   the child-delegation profile
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-child-delegation]).  When the
   predecessor has non-terminal Child Missions, the expansion consent
   disclosure SHOULD surface that fact as a material notice: at minimum
   the count of live Child Missions and that supersession terminates
   them.  A child still needed after the expansion is re-created under
   the successor through ordinary child creation, in generation order.
   A deployment MAY additionally support an expansion-request parameter
   by which the client asks the Mission Issuer to refuse the expansion
   while live Child Missions exist.

   This is the priced limitation of the current design.  Cascade applies
   to every non-terminal Child Mission regardless of whether that
   child's own Authority Set would still satisfy strict-subset
   validation against the successor: the successor's Authority Set is
   freshly derived, not inherited by reference, so a child's creation-
   time subset check does not carry forward
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-child-delegation],
   Section "Cascade Revocation").  The re-creation above is paid for per
   child: a fresh assertion conveyed to the child actor that held the
   terminated child, and an interval in which that child actor's
   outstanding tokens under the terminated child run to the earlier of
   their own exp and the runtime staleness bound, where the runtime
   enforcement layer is deployed, while the replacement is delivered
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-child-delegation],
   Section "Cascade Failure").  Where a deployment provides the notice
   recommended above, the expansion consent event is where this price is
   rendered; that consent event is the only point in this profile at
   which a human can witness the cascade before it happens.

6.4.  Successor expiry

   The successor's effective expires_at follows the issuance profile's
   requested-versus-effective rule
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission]).  It MUST NOT be later than
   the expansion submission's intent.expires_at, the requested ceiling.
   It MUST NOT exceed the predecessor's expires_at unless the Mission
   Issuer's policy explicitly permits extension and the extension is
   disclosed to the Approver at the expansion consent event, which
   records the exact approved extension ceiling.  Expansion is an
   authority-addition mechanism, not a silent lifetime-extension
   mechanism.  The issuance profile caps every derived credential's exp
   at the Mission's expires_at; a successor that silently outlived its
   predecessor would let expansion launder a longer-lived Mission past
   the originally approved horizon.

   The completing success response, the resolving poll or the code
   redemption, MUST carry the effective value in the issuance profile's
   mission_expires_at response member.  Completion inherits the issuance
   profile's atomic creation-time check: where the submission's
   intent.expires_at passes while the expansion is pending, completion
   creates no successor Mission and the exchange fails with this
   profile's denial semantics (Section 13).

   An auditor verifies the successor record by inequalities, never by
   matching a recomputed minimum: in every case the effective value is
   no later than the submission's intent.expires_at; without an approved
   extension it is also no later than the predecessor's expires_at; with
   one, it MAY be later than the predecessor's expires_at only when the
   Mission Issuer's policy permits the extension and the exact effective
   value was rendered and approved at the expansion consent event.  Any
   further shortening is justified by recorded policy.

7.  The Predecessor Mission Reference

   The successor records a lineage link to the predecessor as a
   predecessor member, both on the successor's mission claim and on the
   successor's Mission record.

   The issuance profile's mission claim is an open object: additional
   members MAY appear alongside id, issuer, and authority_hash, each
   defined by the profile that introduces it, and a consumer MUST ignore
   members it does not understand and MUST NOT use any additional member
   to grant or widen authority ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission]).
   This document introduces one such member:

   predecessor:  REQUIRED on a successor Mission; absent otherwise.  A
      string.  The mission_id of the Mission this Mission succeeded by
      expansion.  Present on every Mission created by expansion and
      absent on a Mission that was not created by expansion.  It links
      the successor to the Mission it replaced so that the expansion
      chain is observable in audit.

   The same predecessor value is recorded on the successor's immutable
   Mission record so that the lineage is durable independently of any
   derived token.

   This document defines two further lineage members:

   related_to:  OPTIONAL.  A string.  The mission_id of a Mission this
      Mission is related to by lineage without superseding it, used for
      a non-superseding link such as a branch (Section 9).  Unlike
      predecessor, its presence does not imply that the referenced
      Mission was superseded and it carries no lifecycle consequence.

   successor:  OPTIONAL.  A string.  The mission_id of the successor
      that superseded this Mission by expansion, recorded on the
      superseded predecessor's Mission record at supersession
      (Section 8).  It is the reverse of the successor's predecessor
      link, letting a consumer that holds a superseded predecessor
      discover its successor directly.  The Status profile surfaces it
      in the status response
      ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-status]) and the Signals
      profile in the superseded lifecycle event
      ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-signals]).

   predecessor, related_to, and successor are lineage and audit context
   only.  Consistent with the issuance profile's open-mission-claim
   rule, each of them MUST NOT grant or widen authority, and a consumer
   that does not understand one MUST ignore it.  The successor's
   authority comes only from its own authority_hash, never from its
   predecessor.

   predecessor, related_to, and successor are each a bare Mission
   Identifier string, not an object like the parent member of a Child
   Mission ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-child-delegation]):
   same-issuer succession needs only the identifier to resolve the
   linked Mission at the shared issuer, whereas parentage carries
   cascade semantics and cross-object integrity that require a
   structured member.

   Properties:

   *  *Cardinality.* A successor has at most one predecessor.  An
      expansion chain is expressed by walking predecessor links from a
      successor back toward the original Mission.

   *  *Immutability.* predecessor is set at the successor's approval
      event and MUST NOT change thereafter.  The Mission record is
      immutable except for its state and the one-time successor link a
      supersession sets on the predecessor (Section 8).

   *  *Origin.* The predecessor and successor share an issuer: an
      expansion is adjudicated by the predecessor's Mission Issuer.  A
      consumer correlating a chain resolves each link at that issuer.

   Example successor mission claim on a derived token (non-normative;
   other token claims omitted):

   {
     "mission": {
       "id": "msn_2Yt7Qv9LqMv4z7sA2bN1k0YpEdHc9RfX",
       "issuer": "https://as.example.com",
       "authority_hash":
         "sha-256:Td9bM7sX1cF8gH2vJ4kE5pNQl3KvZ4mP5x0wQrR6tY2",
       "predecessor": "msn_8RfX2Lqv9TqMv4z7sA2bN1k0YpEdHc9-"
     }
   }

8.  The Superseded Predecessor State

   This document adds one terminal state to the issuance profile's
   lifecycle, used only by expansion:

   superseded:  A predecessor Mission that a successor has replaced
      through a replacement expansion.  Terminal and non-active.

   A deployment that never expands a Mission never produces this state;
   the issuance profile's active/revoked/expired lifecycle is unchanged
   for it.  The transition is:

            +========+==========================+============+
            | From   | Event                    | To         |
            +========+==========================+============+
            | active | successor activates when | superseded |
            |        | its authority is issued  |            |
            +--------+--------------------------+------------+

                                 Table 1

   The transition has these requirements:

   *  *Atomic with successor activation.* The successor activates, and
      the predecessor enters superseded, in one atomic operation at the
      point the successor's authority is issued (Section 6.2: the
      resolving deferred poll or the interactive code redemption), not
      at the approval decision that precedes it.  In that same operation
      the Mission Issuer sets the predecessor's successor member to the
      successor's mission_id (Section 7).  Until the successor activates
      the predecessor remains active.

      -  An expansion that never completes, whose deferred approval
         lapses, or whose authorization code is never redeemed or
         expires, activates no successor and leaves the predecessor
         active, so it never strands the task's authority nor cascade-
         terminates the predecessor's Child Missions.

      -  If the atomic operation fails, the predecessor remains active
         and no successor record exists.  The Mission Issuer MUST NOT
         produce a partial successor or a predecessor left in an
         indeterminate state.

   *  *Non-active: no further derivation.* A superseded Mission is not
      active, so the issuance profile's issuance gating refuses to
      derive any new token, refresh, token exchange, or cross-domain
      grant under it: derivation proceeds only from an active Mission
      ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission]).  New authority for the
      task flows through the successor.

   *  *Already-issued predecessor tokens.* Tokens already derived under
      the predecessor before it was superseded remain valid until their
      own exp, exactly as in the issuance profile's revocation model:
      superseding a Mission stops new derivation; it does not
      retroactively invalidate access tokens already issued.

      -  These tokens MUST NOT be silently rebound to the successor.
         Authority under the successor is obtained only by deriving from
         the successor's grant, which is a new derivation governed by
         the successor's Authority Set.

      -  A deployment that needs a lower cutoff latency on the
         predecessor's outstanding tokens SHOULD use short token
         lifetimes.  It MAY additionally revoke the predecessor's
         refresh token where the issuance profile's optional revocation
         composition is in use.

   *  *Reported as non-active.* A superseded predecessor is reported
      through the same mechanisms that report a revoked or expired
      Mission.  Where the issuance profile's optional token
      introspection is offered, the composite active is false and, from
      the issuer, the mission.state member gives superseded.  Where the
      Mission Status profile [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-status]
      is deployed, the dedicated Status operation reports superseded
      among the terminal states and the Status Response mission.state
      gives superseded.  A deployment that offers either surface and
      this document MUST include superseded among the lifecycle states
      its issuer may report.  Consumers rely on the issuance profile's
      forward-compatibility rule: superseded, like any non-active state,
      is non-deriving.

8.1.  No implicit rollback

   The Mission Issuer MUST NOT implicitly resurrect a superseded
   predecessor when its successor is later revoked, expired, or itself
   superseded; superseded is terminal.  A deployment that needs "revert
   to the predecessor's authority" semantics expresses that as a new
   approval event creating a new Mission that carries the relevant
   authority, with its own predecessor link preserving the lineage.  A
   rollback is therefore a new governed Mission, not a state reversal.

9.  Replacement Expansion

   A successful expansion is a *replacement*: the successor replaces the
   predecessor, and the predecessor becomes superseded (Section 8).
   Replacement is the only mode this document defines.

   Under replacement, exactly one successor is created per predecessor,
   and the predecessor is no longer active once the successor activates.
   The successor carries its own complete Authority Set as derived and
   consented at the expansion approval event; it does not inherit the
   predecessor's authority by reference.  A deployment that wants the
   successor to retain the predecessor's authority alongside the new
   authority expresses the combined authority in the expansion Mission
   Intent, so the successor's authority_hash commits exactly the
   authority the Approver saw and approved (Section 6).

   A *branch* mode, in which the predecessor and the successor both
   remain active after expansion (for example, a separately scoped child
   task running alongside the original), is OPTIONAL and is not defined
   here.  A deployment that needs a separately scoped task alongside a
   still-active Mission creates an ordinary new Mission under the
   issuance profile and MAY set that Mission's related_to member
   (Section 7) to the original Mission's mission_id to preserve lineage;
   it does not set predecessor, which would imply a supersession, so the
   original remains active.  An atomic, grant-bound branch expansion
   that creates such a child within a single expansion approval event is
   deferred to a future revision of this document.

10.  Continuing Under an Independently Approved Mission

   A deployment can end one Mission and continue the work under another
   without this document's expansion protocol: it approves an ordinary
   new Mission under the issuance profile and explicitly revokes the
   prior Mission.  This is independent continuation, an operational
   pattern; it is not expansion, succession, or replacement in the
   protocol sense, and none of this document's predecessor, successor,
   or superseded semantics apply.

   The two commits are independent, and the pattern's properties follow
   from that:

   *  both Missions are normally active for an interval; revoking first
      instead opens an availability gap if the new approval fails;

   *  revocation can fail or be omitted, leaving both active until the
      prior Mission's own lifecycle ends it;

   *  the prior Mission's outstanding tokens retain their ordinary
      residual lifetime, and no credential is rebound: authority under
      the new Mission is obtained only by fresh derivation from it;

   *  revoking the prior Mission terminal-cascades its Child Missions,
      and continuing child work requires fresh Child Mission creation
      under the new Mission
      ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-child-delegation]);

   *  a harness applies its ordinary stop behavior to the revoked
      Mission; the supersession continuation handoff does not apply
      ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-harness]); and

   *  nothing serializes concurrent continuations, no exactly-one
      guarantee exists, and the new approval is not grant-bound to the
      prior Mission.

   A deployment MAY record the relationship as related_to on the new
   Mission (Section 7). related_to is issuer-recorded correlation
   metadata, not client-asserted authority: this document defines no
   client request parameter for it, and mission_intent carries the task
   and its submission evidence, never a relationship member; the input
   that causes it to be recorded is authenticated and authorized under
   the Mission Issuer's management or local policy.  The Mission Issuer
   MUST authorize and resolve the reference, in its own namespace,
   before the new Mission's approval completes (a cross-issuer
   relationship requires a structured extension); MUST set related_to
   atomically when the Mission record is created; and MUST NOT add or
   change it afterward.  An unresolved or unauthorized reference is
   never recorded: deployment policy either rejects the creation
   uniformly or proceeds without the relationship, applied consistently
   across requests, and neither behavior discloses whether the
   referenced Mission exists.  The member asserts related work only,
   neither mutual recognition nor replacement.

   A Mission created this way MUST NOT carry the predecessor member,
   which asserts the supersession semantics only replacement expansion
   provides.  Independent continuation does not satisfy any profile that
   requires a successor: containment restoration in particular requires
   the predecessor link and the disclosed history that expansion's
   approval renders.

11.  Concurrent Expansion Reconciliation

   More than one expansion request MAY be in flight against the same
   predecessor at once, and more than one MAY be adjudicated and
   awaiting its completion.  Because replacement produces exactly one
   successor per predecessor (Section 9) and supersession is deferred to
   activation (Section 8), the Mission Issuer MUST serialize the
   completions that would activate a successor of the same predecessor,
   so that concurrent expansions cannot each activate one.

   The Mission Issuer MUST apply compare-and-set semantics at successor
   activation (Section 6.2).  This is the completion-side re-
   verification of the deferred window (Section 6.3).  In the same
   atomic step that would activate the successor and supersede the
   predecessor, the Mission Issuer MUST verify:

   1.  the predecessor is still in the active state; and

   2.  no other replacement expansion has already activated a successor
       for this predecessor (equivalently, the predecessor has not
       already transitioned to superseded).

   If either check fails, the Mission Issuer MUST refuse the completion
   with invalid_grant and the applicable reconciliation status from the
   closed set below.  The losing or otherwise stale expansion is
   rejected at completion; it activates no successor.

   The reconciliation status codes are:

   superseded_by_concurrent_expansion:  A concurrent replacement
      expansion has already produced a successor; the predecessor is now
      superseded rather than active.  The client SHOULD discover the
      existing successor and re-evaluate whether a further expansion is
      still required (an expansion of the successor is a new expansion
      against the successor as predecessor).

   predecessor_state_changed:  The predecessor made a terminal exit from
      active (to revoked, expired, or superseded) before this expansion
      could complete, whether caught at request binding (Section 5.3) or
      at the compare-and-set on successor activation (Section 11).  The
      client MUST NOT retry the same expansion against this predecessor.

   predecessor_not_active:  The predecessor is in a non-terminal non-
      active state (for example suspended under the Mission Status
      profile [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-status]) and cannot be
      expanded until it returns to active.  The client MAY retry the
      expansion after the predecessor is active again.

   The two terminal-exit codes overlap in the superseded case by design:
   superseded_by_concurrent_expansion is the specific reconciliation
   outcome when the cause is a concurrent expansion that has already
   won, and predecessor_state_changed is the general outcome for any
   other terminal exit from active.  A Mission Issuer SHOULD return the
   specific code when it can attribute the change to a concurrent
   expansion. predecessor_not_active is distinct from both: it reports a
   reversible, non-terminal state, so it invites the retry the terminal
   codes forbid.

   The Mission Issuer conveys the reconciliation status in a
   mission_expansion_status member of the OAuth error response body,
   alongside the invalid_grant error:

   mission_expansion_status:  A string carrying one reconciliation
      status from this document's closed set (Section 11).  It is
      returned by the step that failed.  At the token endpoint, on the
      token exchange response and on a deferred token response poll
      (Section 6.2), it is a member of the JSON error response body,
      alongside the OAuth error member.  On the retained interactive
      path's front-channel authorization error response, which carries
      error parameters rather than a JSON body, it is carried as an
      error response parameter of the same name.  Adjudication denial
      reasons ride the separate mission_denial_reason member
      (Section 13).

12.  Creation Idempotency

   A creation_request_id identifies one Mission-creation operation
   across every completion mode.  The Mission Issuer MUST durably bind
   the authenticated client, the identifier, the operation fingerprint
   (Section 12.1), and the resulting continuation or successor Mission,
   atomically with the creation decision.  Repetition of the exchange
   recovers that operation (Section 12.3); it MUST NOT repeat Mission
   creation or any creation-side effect: creation accounting, creation
   lifecycle events, evidence emission.

   The identifier is REQUIRED in every completion mode because the
   client cannot know in advance which mode the Mission Issuer will
   select, and because the existing single-use artifacts do not close
   the retry fault.  DPoP proof jti single-use (Section 5.2) prevents
   replay of one captured proof; a client that loses the response
   retries with a fresh, valid proof, and without the identifier that
   retry is a second creation.  The retained interactive path's single-
   use artifacts prevent only duplicate redemption within one ceremony;
   the reservation made at initiation is what prevents a retry from
   starting a second ceremony (Section 12.3).

   The child delegation profile
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-child-delegation]) carries the
   same parameter with the same semantics on its child-creation
   exchange, as mission_denial_reason is shared across the profiles that
   mint a Mission related to an existing one (Section 13).  Delegation-
   family-creating exchanges adopt the same definitions by reference,
   each under its own domain-separating op value (Section 12.1); the
   continuation profile's async-delegation exchange does so
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-continuation]).

12.1.  The operation fingerprint

   The operation fingerprint commits what the operation is, so a
   repeated identifier is distinguishable from a reused one.  It is
   computed as an issuance-profile integrity anchor
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission]) whose typ is mission-creation-
   fingerprint, under that profile's collision-resistant typ convention,
   and whose committed value is the object below: the anchor envelope is
   canonicalized with JCS [RFC8785], hashed with SHA-256, and encoded as
   sha-256: followed by the base64url, no-padding, encoding of the
   digest, exactly as for the profile's other anchors.  It is an
   envelope anchor under the issuance profile's commitment mechanisms,
   which this document imports normatively.  As a JCS commitment-
   envelope typ, mission-creation-fingerprint names a hash domain, not a
   representation crossing a protocol boundary, and is deliberately not
   a media type ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission],
   Section "Namespace Taxonomy").

   The fingerprint object carries exactly these members:

   op:  expansion for this document's exchange; child-creation for the
      child delegation profile's.  This member domain-separates the two
      operations that share the token-exchange grant.

   iss:  The Mission Issuer's issuer identifier.

   client:  The authenticated client identifier.

   source:  The mission_id of the source Mission resolved from
      subject_token (Section 5.2): the predecessor here, the parent
      under child delegation.  The resolved identifier is the member,
      never the raw subject_token, since a legitimate retry may carry a
      newly issued token for the same Mission, and never the optional
      cross-check alone, which is non-authoritative.

   cnf:  The verified presenter confirmation: the DPoP proof key's jkt,
      or the mTLS certificate's x5t#S256 (Section 5.2).

   actor:  The verified acting-agent identity, with its relevant actor
      context, where the exchange carries one (actor_token); absent
      where client authentication alone identifies the acting agent.

   intent:  The semantic intent object of the parsed mission_intent
      Submission envelope ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission]).

   evidence:  The parsed evidence array of the Submission envelope, when
      present.  Presented evidence affects admission, derivation,
      approval, and side effects, so a retry presenting different
      evidence is a different operation, refused on the fingerprint
      mismatch below.

   proposal:  The parsed authorization_details array, when present.

   child_actor:  The parsed child_actor object; child creation only,
      absent on an expansion.

   requested_token_type:  The exchange's requested_token_type value.

   cross_check:  The supplied predecessor value (under child delegation,
      the supplied parent value), when present.

   An extension that defines a new parameter affecting the
   authorization, derivation, approval, output, or side effects of the
   creation MUST extend the fingerprint object with it.  Attempt-
   specific material is excluded: the DPoP proof serialization and its
   jti, the client-authentication assertion serialization, the raw
   subject_token serialization, and creation_request_id itself.

12.2.  The durable reservation

   A reservation is the durable record binding the authenticated client,
   the creation_request_id, and the fingerprint.  It is created in a
   reserved state and moves to completed or failed.  The (client,
   creation_request_id) pair is unique, and the store MUST enforce that
   uniqueness as a constraint; a read-before-insert check without one
   does not withstand concurrent retries.

   The reservation and the created Mission's identifier MUST be
   committed atomically with Mission creation; credential generation MAY
   follow the commit.  This closes the crash window: when the Mission
   commits and the Mission Issuer fails before responding, the retry
   finds the committed operation and resumes delivery (Section 12.3),
   never creating again.

   A repeated presentation of the same (client, creation_request_id)
   resolves by fingerprint:

   *  same fingerprint, operation completed: recover it (Section 12.3);

   *  same fingerprint, operation reserved or pending: return the same
      continuation, or a retryable in-progress result;

   *  different fingerprint: refuse with invalid_request.  The
      identifier was reused for a different operation.

12.3.  Recovery is delivery

   The Mission Issuer stores the operation's stable outcome, never its
   serialized response: the completion mode with its continuation
   handle, or the created Mission's identifier with its delivery-
   artifact metadata.  A revalidated retry (Section 12.4) recovers that
   outcome:

   *  A pending deferred completion returns the same deferral: the same
      (client, creation_request_id) resolves to the same deferred
      continuation, scoped to the authenticated client, never to a
      second deferral.

   *  A pending interactive completion returns the same continuation
      reference.  The reservation is made at initiation, so a retry
      cannot start a second approval ceremony.

   *  A completed operation whose delivery credential is still valid
      returns that credential.

   *  A completed operation whose delivery credential has expired is
      recovered by minting a fresh delivery credential for the already-
      created successor, provided that successor remains active and the
      requester re-establishes the recorded authorization context
      (Section 12.4).  The fresh credential is a delivery event with
      ordinary issuance accounting; it MUST NOT repeat creation
      accounting: no second creation lifecycle event, no second evidence
      emission, no second count against any creation budget.

   Recovery never re-creates.  Whatever the outcome tier, a recovered
   operation yields the Mission the operation already created, or the
   continuation it already opened, and nothing else.

12.4.  Revalidation and lookup order

   A matching creation_request_id never bypasses authentication or
   possession.  Before recovering anything, the Mission Issuer MUST
   establish:

   *  the same authenticated client;

   *  the recorded source Mission;

   *  the same authorized acting agent;

   *  possession of the recorded sender-constraint identity, the stored
      cnf of Section 12.1; and

   *  fingerprint compatibility (Section 12.2).

   No key-rotation recovery path is defined: a requester that can no
   longer prove possession of the recorded cnf does not recover the
   operation.

   The idempotency lookup occurs after client authentication and
   possession verification and before the predecessor lifecycle gate
   (Section 6.1).  The order is load-bearing: the retry worth recovering
   is exactly the one whose predecessor transitioned to superseded when
   the first attempt succeeded (Section 8), so re-running the
   predecessor-active gate first would refuse the very recovery this
   mechanism exists to serve.

12.5.  Tombstone retention

   Retention has two tiers.  The full delivery-artifact record MAY be
   retained briefly.  The idempotency tombstone, the (client,
   creation_request_id) binding with its fingerprint and its Mission or
   continuation reference, MUST survive at least the deployment's
   published retry horizon, and retention to the source or created
   Mission's lifetime, or to the deployment's audit horizon, is
   RECOMMENDED.  The retry horizon is a published deployment bound, like
   the deployment's other operational bounds.  A client MUST NOT retry a
   creation past the published horizon: reuse of an identifier after its
   tombstone expires is outside the contract and is processed as a new
   operation.

13.  Expansion Denial Reasons

   An adjudication that completes with the Approver declining, or with
   the Mission Issuer refusing on policy grounds, denies the expansion:
   no successor is created and the predecessor remains active and
   untouched.  Such a denial surfaces per the completion mode
   (Section 6.2): as an OAuth error on the token exchange response
   (typically invalid_request for a request the Mission Issuer will not
   derive a valid Authority Set from), as the deferred substrate's
   access_denied resolution on a deferred poll, or through the
   interactive approval's own decline path.  It MAY additionally carry
   one machine-readable reason code from the Mission Denial Reasons
   registry (Section 18.2); this document defines four:

   out_of_policy:  The Mission Issuer's governance policy refuses the
      requested authority class for this Mission, independent of who
      approves.

   approver_rejected:  The Approver declined the expansion at the
      consent step.

   out_of_scope_for_purpose:  The requested authority is incompatible
      with the Mission's recorded purpose; a different Mission, not an
      expansion of this one, is the appropriate vehicle.

   nothing_to_expand:  The derived requested authority is a subset of
      the predecessor's own Effective Authority Set, so there is nothing
      to expand: ordinary token derivation under the predecessor already
      serves the request (Section 6.1).  This refusal surfaces on the
      token exchange response itself, as invalid_request, and MUST carry
      this reason code; it is never answered with a token derived under
      the predecessor, so an expansion response is never ambiguously a
      non-successor.

   A companion profile registers an extension to this set in the Mission
   Denial Reasons registry (Section 18.2) rather than defining it here
   (for example, the experimental progressive authorization companion
   registers out_of_ceiling,
   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-progressive], and the
   experimental template dispatch companion registers
   out_of_template_ceiling and dispatch_prohibited_class,
   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-template]); a consumer MUST treat
   an unrecognized reason code as a denial with no further semantics.

   A Mission Issuer MUST NOT use a reason code to disclose policy
   boundaries beyond the adjudicated request (Section 16.7); omitting
   the reason code is always permitted, with one exception:
   nothing_to_expand MUST be carried on its refusal.  It reveals only
   that the requester already holds the requested authority, which the
   requester can observe from its own token, so the policy-probing
   rationale for omission does not apply (Section 16.7); carrying it
   keeps a non-widening refusal distinguishable from a policy denial.
   When present, a reason code is carried in a mission_denial_reason
   member: at the token endpoint, on the token exchange response and on
   a deferred token response poll, a member of the JSON error response
   body alongside the OAuth error member; on the retained interactive
   path's front-channel authorization error response, an error response
   parameter of the same name.

   mission_denial_reason is the shared carrier for adjudication denial
   reasons across the profiles that mint a Mission related to an
   existing one: the child delegation profile
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-child-delegation]) carries its
   own closed denial-reason set in the same member, and further such
   profiles do likewise.  Each profile defines its values by
   specification; the unrecognized-code rule above applies to the member
   wherever it appears.

   Two failure classes are not denial reasons and use the issuance
   profile's error vocabulary directly: an expansion request whose
   predecessor cross-check does not match the subject_token-resolved
   Mission, or whose predecessor is not active, fails with invalid_grant
   (Section 5.2, Section 5.3); an expansion Mission Intent the Mission
   Issuer cannot parse or cannot derive a valid Authority Set from fails
   with invalid_request or, where the issuance profile uses it,
   invalid_authorization_details ([RFC9396]), exactly as for any Mission
   creation.

14.  Worked Example

   The Q3 reconciliation Mission msn_8RfX2Lqv9TqMv4z7sA2bN1k0YpEdHc9-
   authorizes reading invoices and posting journal entries under $500.
   Mid-task the agent finds an adjustment of $1,200, outside the active
   Mission's authority.  It cannot widen in place; it requests an
   expansion as a token exchange presenting the predecessor's Mission-
   bound access token as the subject_token, proving possession with a
   DPoP proof over the token's confirmation key:

   POST /token HTTP/1.1
   Host: as.example.com
   Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
   DPoP: eyJ0eXAiOiJkcG9wK2p3dCIsImFsZyI6IkVTMjU2Iiwi...

   grant_type=urn%3Aietf%3Aparams%3Aoauth%3Agrant-type%3Atoken-exchange&
   requested_token_type=urn%3Aietf%3Aparams%3Aoauth%3Atoken-type%3Aaccess_token&
   subject_token=<predecessor%20Mission-bound%20access%20token>&
   subject_token_type=urn%3Aietf%3Aparams%3Aoauth%3Atoken-type%3Aaccess_token&
   mission_intent=%7B%22intent%22%3A
     %7B...journal-entries%20cap%20%242000...%7D%7D&
   predecessor=msn_8RfX2Lqv9TqMv4z7sA2bN1k0YpEdHc9-&
   creation_request_id=7c9e6679-7425-40de-944b-e07fc1f90ae7&
   client_id=s6BhdRkqt3

   The Mission Issuer resolves the predecessor from subject_token,
   verifies the presenter controls the token's confirmation key,
   confirms the predecessor cross-check names that Mission and that it
   is active, and derives the successor's Authority Set. The widening
   requires fresh consent and the deployment approves asynchronously, so
   the Mission Issuer returns a deferred token response; alice approves
   the widened cap on the review surface, and the client's next poll
   delivers the successor's access token.  At that issuance the Mission
   Issuer activates the successor and supersedes the predecessor
   atomically; until then the predecessor stays active.  The successor's
   token carries a predecessor member:

   {
     "mission": {
       "id": "msn_2Yt7Qv9LqMv4z7sA2bN1k0YpEdHc9RfX",
       "issuer": "https://as.example.com",
       "authority_hash":
         "sha-256:Td9bM7sX1cF8gH2vJ4kE5pNQl3KvZ4mP5x0wQrR6tY2",
       "predecessor": "msn_8RfX2Lqv9TqMv4z7sA2bN1k0YpEdHc9-"
     }
   }

   The predecessor is now superseded: it derives no new tokens, its
   already-issued tokens run out their short lifetimes, and the task
   continues under the successor.  The widening came only from alice's
   fresh consent; the successor's authority_hash commits the widened
   Authority Set it was actually approved for, not the predecessor's
   plus a delta.

15.  Conformance

   An implementation claims conformance to this document only in the
   Mission Issuer role, under one of two targets: as an expansion-
   capable Mission Issuer when it adjudicates expansion, or under the
   optional related_to correlation target below.

   A Mission Issuer that records related_to without adjudicating
   expansion conforms to the *related_to correlation* target when it
   meets every rule of Section 10: authenticated and authorized input,
   pre-approval resolution, creation-time atomic recording,
   immutability, consistent non-disclosing failure behavior, and no
   predecessor member.  Nothing else in this section applies to that
   target.

   A conforming *expansion-capable Mission Issuer* MUST:

   *  accept an [RFC8693] token exchange whose subject_token is the
      predecessor's Mission-bound access token, with subject_token_type
      of access_token, treating it as an expansion (Section 5.1), and
      reject a refresh token as the subject_token;

   *  resolve the predecessor from subject_token, verify possession
      against the token's own confirmation key, refuse a predecessor
      cross-check that does not match the resolved Mission or a
      predecessor that is not active with invalid_grant, and evaluate
      the request in the verification order of Section 6.1 (Section 5.2,
      Section 5.3);

   *  require a creation_request_id on every expansion exchange,
      refusing a missing one with invalid_request, and recover a
      repeated one under the reservation, recovery, revalidation, and
      retention rules of Section 12;

   *  refuse an exchange whose derived requested authority is a subset
      of the predecessor's own Effective Authority Set, carrying the
      nothing_to_expand denial reason (Section 6.1, Section 13);

   *  complete the expansion in one of the modes of Section 6.2,
      obtaining new consent for the successor's authority through the
      deferred token response or the retained interactive approval
      (Section 6) and enforcing the successor-expiry rule (Section 6.4);

   *  record the predecessor member on the successor's mission claim and
      Mission record (Section 7);

   *  activate the successor and transition the predecessor to
      superseded atomically when the successor's authority is issued,
      leaving the predecessor active until then, re-verifying
      predecessor state at completion (Section 6.3), and refuse further
      derivation under a superseded Mission (Section 8); and

   *  serialize concurrent expansions against the same predecessor with
      the reconciliation semantics of Section 11.

   An expansion-capable Mission Issuer is also a conforming issuance-
   profile Mission Issuer ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission]); this
   document adds the expansion surface to that role.  A Resource Server
   requires no new behavior: it enforces a successor's tokens exactly as
   it enforces any Mission-bound token, and treats the predecessor
   member, if it reads it at all, as audit context it MUST NOT use to
   grant authority (Section 7).

   Every expansion this document defines is adjudicated as a fresh
   approval event (Section 6).  The experimental progressive
   authorization companion defines a further OPTIONAL capability,
   *Expansion with Progressive Authorization*, with its own conformance
   requirements ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-progressive]).

16.  Security Considerations

   Expansion's central guarantee is the issuance profile's, applied to
   the successor: a user's fresh approval bounds every token derived for
   the broadened task.  The risks specific to expansion are in the
   predecessor binding, the predecessor-to-successor handoff, and the
   lineage link.

16.1.  Predecessor confusion

   A client could attempt to expand a Mission it does not control, for
   example by naming another tenant's or subject's mission_id in the
   predecessor parameter.

   Mitigations:

   *  The predecessor is resolved from the subject_token the client
      presents, not from the predecessor value, and possession is proven
      against that token's own confirmation key; the Mission Issuer
      verifies that the resolved Mission matches the named one and
      refuses a mismatch with invalid_grant (Section 5.2).  A client
      that does not hold the predecessor's Mission-bound access token
      and its sender-constraint key cannot expand it.

   *  The issuance profile's integrity anchors are issuer-bound, so a
      Mission's governance state cannot be transplanted across Mission
      Issuers; an expansion is adjudicated only at the predecessor's own
      issuer.

16.2.  Possession proof

   A stolen or exfiltrated predecessor credential could be replayed to
   request an expansion.

   Mitigations:

   *  The subject_token is a sender-constrained access token, not a
      reusable bearer refresh credential, and possession is proven
      against the token's own confirmation key (Section 5.2): a bearer
      copy of the token, without its DPoP key or mTLS certificate,
      cannot carry the proof.  A refresh token MUST NOT be accepted as
      the subject_token (Section 5.1).

   *  The DPoP proof jti is single-use ([RFC9449]), so a captured proof
      cannot be replayed (Section 6.1).

   *  The short-lived subject_token bounds the window in which even a
      key-holding attacker could act, and the possession proof is bound
      and recorded at request time so a legitimate deferred completion
      is not gated on that lifetime (Section 6.3).

16.3.  Authority comes only from new consent

   An expansion could be misused to widen authority without the Approver
   re-consenting, if a successor were allowed to inherit or extend
   authority without a fresh approval.

   Mitigations:

   *  The successor's authority comes only from the Authority Set
      derived and consented at the expansion approval event; the
      authority_hash commits exactly that set (Section 6).  The
      predecessor member carries no authority and cannot widen the
      successor (Section 7).

   *  The successor-expiry rule (Section 6.4) keeps the successor's
      expires_at from silently exceeding the predecessor's, so expansion
      cannot launder a longer lifetime past the originally approved
      horizon.

16.4.  Race against predecessor lifecycle

   Between the moment a client decides to expand and the moment the
   successor activates, the predecessor may be revoked, expire, or be
   superseded by a concurrent expansion.  A deferred or interactive
   completion widens this window.  Without serialization an expansion
   could appear to succeed against a predecessor that is no longer
   authoritative, or two successors could be created.

   Mitigations:

   *  The Mission Issuer verifies predecessor state and the no-existing-
      successor condition in the same atomic step that would activate
      the successor (Section 6.3), and serializes the completions that
      activate a successor of the same predecessor (Section 11).

   *  A failed check refuses with invalid_grant and a reconciliation
      status that tells the client whether to discover an existing
      successor or stop, without leaking the predecessor's new internal
      state beyond that (Section 11).

16.5.  Duplicate creation

   To a client, a lost response is indistinguishable from a failed
   creation.  Without idempotency the natural retry after a network
   fault creates a second Mission: live authority nobody intended and,
   under the child delegation profile, a consumed fan-out budget
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-child-delegation]).  Proof jti
   single-use does not close this fault: the retry carries a fresh,
   valid proof.

   Mitigations:

   *  The REQUIRED creation_request_id, with its durable reservation and
      uniqueness constraint, makes the retry recover the one committed
      operation, concurrent retries included (Section 12, Section 12.2).

   *  The identifier is a deduplication handle, not a secret and not a
      credential: recovery re-establishes client authentication,
      possession of the recorded confirmation key, and the recorded
      authorization context, so the recovery path never weakens the
      possession requirements of Section 5.2 (Section 12.4).

   *  Reservations are scoped to the authenticated client, so one
      client's identifiers cannot interfere with, or replay, another's.

   *  Storage is bounded: the tombstone is small, its horizon is
      published (Section 12.5), and a Mission Issuer MAY cap outstanding
      reservations per client.

16.6.  Expansion versus step-up

   Conflating expansion with authentication step-up [RFC9470] would
   route an authentication shortfall through an approval event the
   Approver did not need to perform, surfacing irrelevant consent and
   risking approval fatigue, or conversely would treat a genuine
   authority shortfall as a mere re-authentication and silently widen
   nothing.

   Mitigation: a denial that is an authentication shortfall (acr, amr)
   is satisfied by step-up and MUST NOT be routed to expansion; a denial
   that is an authority shortfall is the one expansion addresses
   (Section 4.3).  The component that classifies the denial
   (Section 4.2) makes this distinction.

16.7.  Policy probing

   A client could submit many expansion requests for the same
   predecessor to map the Mission Issuer's policy boundary from the
   denial reasons.

   Mitigations:

   *  The Mission Issuer MUST rate-limit expansion requests per
      predecessor per client.  The bound is unconditional: it caps both
      policy probing and the approval prompts a client can drive against
      an Approver (prompt fatigue).  Every expansion presentation is
      recorded and counted toward anomaly detection (Section 5.2).

   *  A denial reason MUST NOT disclose policy boundaries beyond the
      adjudicated request (Section 13); a denial reports whether the
      requested authority was approved, not the full surface of what
      would have been.

16.8.  Audit linkage

   The predecessor member makes the expansion chain observable: an
   authorized auditor can trace a successor back through its
   predecessors to the original Mission.  This is a core governance
   property of expansion.  An implementation that omits the member
   breaks the chain and defeats it; the member is therefore mandatory on
   a successor (Section 7).

   General OAuth security guidance applies to the underlying credentials
   through the issuance profile.

17.  Privacy Considerations

   The privacy surface expansion adds over the issuance profile is the
   lineage link and the authority detail disclosed when a task is
   broadened.

17.1.  Predecessor-chain correlation

   The predecessor member that gives audit linkage (Section 16.8) is
   also a correlation surface: it links a successor to its predecessor
   across distinct approval events, so a party that can read the chain
   can correlate the evolving task over time, which is more than any
   single Mission discloses.  This is intrinsic to the governance value
   of expansion.  Deployments SHOULD scope read access to the
   predecessor member, and to any Mission-state surface that exposes it,
   to parties with a governance need, rather than exposing the chain to
   every credential audience.  The issuance profile's Mission Identifier
   correlation considerations apply to each Mission in the chain.

17.2.  Related-work correlation

   related_to correlates independently approved tasks the way the
   predecessor chain correlates a succession, without the authority
   linkage.  The same scoping applies: deployments SHOULD disclose the
   member only to audiences that require the governance relationship,
   and the issuance profile's Mission Identifier correlation
   considerations apply to both Missions it names.

17.3.  Disclosure of the broadened task

   The expansion Mission Intent and the consent disclosure rendered at
   the expansion approval event reveal how the approved task is
   evolving.  The Mission Issuer SHOULD render that disclosure only to
   the Approver and authorized governance consumers, consistent with the
   issuance profile's treatment of consent disclosure.

18.  IANA Considerations

   The predecessor member of the mission claim (Section 7) is not
   registered in a dedicated registry: it is carried inside the already-
   registered mission claim, an open object for which the issuance
   profile establishes no member registry.  No new claim, parameter, or
   token-introspection registration is required for the lineage link.

   This document defines two sets of symbolic codes: the expansion
   reconciliation status codes (Section 11), a closed set conveyed in
   mission_expansion_status, and the expansion denial reasons
   (Section 13), conveyed in the shared mission_denial_reason member.
   As members of the OAuth error response JSON body at the token
   endpoint, both are namespaced to their error responses and require no
   registration; their authorization error response parameter forms,
   used on the retained interactive path, are registered below.

   The reconciliation status codes remain specification-defined: the
   closed set is small and fully specified in Section 11.  A future
   revision MAY establish a "Mission Expansion Reconciliation Status"
   registry for it with a Specification Required [RFC8126] policy; until
   then this document is the value space.

   The denial reasons are registry-backed: this document establishes the
   Mission Denial Reasons registry (Section 18.2), the one registry-
   backed carrier for adjudication-denial values across the family,
   seeds it with the four values it defines, and each further document
   that defines a value on the carrier requests its own registration in
   it.

18.1.  Mission Lifecycle States Registration

   This document requests registration of one state in the issuance
   profile's Mission Lifecycle States registry
   ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission]), under that registry's
   Specification Required policy:

   +============+==========+==================+============+===========+
   | Value      | Terminal | Semantics        | Change     | Reference |
   |            |          |                  | Controller |           |
   +============+==========+==================+============+===========+
   | superseded | yes      | A predecessor    | IETF       | this      |
   |            |          | Mission that     |            | document, |
   |            |          | a successor      |            | Section 8 |
   |            |          | has replaced     |            |           |
   |            |          | through a        |            |           |
   |            |          | replacement      |            |           |
   |            |          | expansion;       |            |           |
   |            |          | terminal and     |            |           |
   |            |          | non-active.      |            |           |
   +------------+----------+------------------+------------+-----------+

                                  Table 2

18.2.  Mission Denial Reasons Registry

   IANA is requested to create the "Mission Denial Reasons" registry.
   The registration policy is Specification Required [RFC8126].  A
   Designated Expert reviews a submission for the discipline Section 13
   requires: a Value matching ^[a-z][a-z0-9_]*$ not already registered,
   a Semantics sentence precise enough that a consumer can tell the
   denial from every other registered value, and a Reference that fixes
   which specification defines it.  Registration does not require IETF
   review or a Standards Track document; a Specification Required
   reference that a Designated Expert can review against these criteria
   suffices.

   The registry covers values of the mission_denial_reason parameter
   only (Section 13); the Resource Server WWW-Authenticate
   mission_denial attribute ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission],
   Section "Resource Server Enforcement") and AuthZEN decision-context
   denial reasons ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-authzen]) are separate
   specification-defined value spaces, outside this registry's scope.  A
   companion that adds a denial value states whether it adds a row to
   this carrier's registry or defines a value in a separate space; a
   shared spelling across carriers is a coincidence, never shared
   semantics, unless the defining documents state the mapping.

   A consumer MUST treat an unrecognized value as a denial with no
   further semantics (Section 13).  A Designated Expert MUST reject a
   registration whose governing specification attempts to redefine this
   interaction rather than adding a value bound by it.

   Each registration records:

   *  *Value*: the mission_denial_reason symbolic string.

   *  *Semantics*: one sentence stating what the denial means.

   *  *Change Controller*: IETF, or the registrant for any other
      registration.

   *  *Reference*: the specification defining the value.

   This document seeds the registry with the values it defines
   (Section 13):

   +==========================+================+============+=========+
   | Value                    | Semantics      | Change     |Reference|
   |                          |                | Controller |         |
   +==========================+================+============+=========+
   | out_of_policy            | The Mission    | IETF       |this     |
   |                          | Issuer's       |            |document,|
   |                          | governance     |            |Section  |
   |                          | policy refuses |            |13       |
   |                          | the requested  |            |         |
   |                          | authority      |            |         |
   |                          | class for this |            |         |
   |                          | Mission,       |            |         |
   |                          | independent of |            |         |
   |                          | who approves.  |            |         |
   +--------------------------+----------------+------------+---------+
   | approver_rejected        | The Approver   | IETF       |this     |
   |                          | declined the   |            |document,|
   |                          | expansion at   |            |Section  |
   |                          | the consent    |            |13       |
   |                          | step.          |            |         |
   +--------------------------+----------------+------------+---------+
   | out_of_scope_for_purpose | The requested  | IETF       |this     |
   |                          | authority is   |            |document,|
   |                          | incompatible   |            |Section  |
   |                          | with the       |            |13       |
   |                          | Mission's      |            |         |
   |                          | recorded       |            |         |
   |                          | purpose.       |            |         |
   +--------------------------+----------------+------------+---------+
   | nothing_to_expand        | The derived    | IETF       |this     |
   |                          | requested      |            |document,|
   |                          | authority is a |            |Section  |
   |                          | subset of the  |            |13       |
   |                          | predecessor's  |            |         |
   |                          | own Effective  |            |         |
   |                          | Authority Set, |            |         |
   |                          | so there is    |            |         |
   |                          | nothing to     |            |         |
   |                          | expand.        |            |         |
   +--------------------------+----------------+------------+---------+

                                 Table 3

   Each further document that defines a value on this carrier requests
   that value's registration in its own IANA considerations, carrying
   its Internet-Draft reference as a publication dependency under this
   registry's policy until it is published; Specification Required does
   not require Standards Track maturity of the registrant.

   The expansion request is an [RFC8693] token exchange carrying the
   already-registered mission_intent request parameter and the already-
   registered token-exchange parameters subject_token,
   subject_token_type, requested_token_type, actor_token, and
   actor_token_type; none of these needs registration by this document.
   The deferred completion mode uses the deferred token response
   substrate ([I-D.draft-gerber-oauth-deferred-token-response]) and
   registers nothing here.  This document removes the earlier revision's
   registration request for a predecessor_token parameter: the
   predecessor is resolved from subject_token, so no dedicated
   predecessor-token parameter exists.

   This document registers the following parameters in the "OAuth
   Parameters" registry:

   *  Name: predecessor

   *  Parameter Usage Location: token request, authorization request

   *  Change Controller: IETF

   *  Reference: this document, Section 5.1

   *  Name: mission_expansion_status

   *  Parameter Usage Location: token response, authorization response

   *  Change Controller: IETF

   *  Reference: this document, Section 11

   *  Name: mission_denial_reason

   *  Parameter Usage Location: token response, authorization response

   *  Change Controller: IETF

   *  Reference: this document, Section 13; also carried by the child
      delegation profile
      ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-child-delegation])

   *  Name: creation_request_id

   *  Parameter Usage Location: token request

   *  Change Controller: IETF

   *  Reference: this document, Section 5.1, Section 12; also carried by
      the child delegation profile
      ([I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-child-delegation])

   The predecessor cross-check rides the token exchange request at the
   token endpoint and, on the retained interactive path, the
   authorization request; the reconciliation status and denial reason
   ride the token error response and, on the interactive path, the
   authorization error response.  The creation_request_id identifier
   rides the token exchange request at the token endpoint in every
   completion mode and never appears on a front channel.

Acknowledgments

   The author thanks the reviewers of the Mission-Bound Authorization
   for OAuth 2.0 profile for feedback on the expansion model and its
   composition with the issuance flow.

References

Normative References

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission-Bound Authorization for OAuth
              2.0", 2026, <https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-bound-
              authorization/draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission.html>.

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

   [RFC8693]  Jones, M., Nadalin, A., Campbell, B., Ed., Bradley, J.,
              and C. Mortimore, "OAuth 2.0 Token Exchange", RFC 8693,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8693, January 2020,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8693>.

   [RFC8705]  Campbell, B., Bradley, J., Sakimura, N., and T.
              Lodderstedt, "OAuth 2.0 Mutual-TLS Client Authentication
              and Certificate-Bound Access Tokens", RFC 8705,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8705, February 2020,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8705>.

   [RFC8785]  Rundgren, A., Jordan, B., and S. Erdtman, "JSON
              Canonicalization Scheme (JCS)", RFC 8785,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8785, June 2020,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8785>.

   [RFC9126]  Lodderstedt, T., Campbell, B., Sakimura, N., Tonge, D.,
              and F. Skokan, "OAuth 2.0 Pushed Authorization Requests",
              RFC 9126, DOI 10.17487/RFC9126, September 2021,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9126>.

   [RFC9396]  Lodderstedt, T., Richer, J., and B. Campbell, "OAuth 2.0
              Rich Authorization Requests", RFC 9396,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9396, May 2023,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9396>.

   [RFC9449]  Fett, D., Campbell, B., Bradley, J., Lodderstedt, T.,
              Jones, M., and D. Waite, "OAuth 2.0 Demonstrating Proof of
              Possession (DPoP)", RFC 9449, DOI 10.17487/RFC9449,
              September 2023, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9449>.

Informative References

   [I-D.draft-gerber-oauth-deferred-token-response]
              Jacobsen, F. K., de Oliveira Niero, G., and M. Gerber,
              "Deferred Token Response", Work in Progress, Internet-
              Draft, draft-gerber-oauth-deferred-token-response-00, 23
              June 2026, <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-
              gerber-oauth-deferred-token-response-00>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-authority-server]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission Authority Server", 2026,
              <https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-bound-authorization/
              draft-mcguinness-mission-authority-server.html>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-authzen]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission-Bound Runtime Enforcement:
              AuthZEN Profile", 2026, <https://mcguinness.github.io/
              mission-bound-authorization/draft-mcguinness-mission-
              authzen.html>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-harness]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission-Aware Agent Harnesses", 2026,
              <https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-bound-authorization/
              draft-mcguinness-mission-harness.html>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-mission-runtime]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission-Bound Runtime Enforcement", 2026,
              <https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-bound-authorization/
              draft-mcguinness-mission-runtime.html>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-approval]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission Deferred Approval for OAuth 2.0",
              2026, <https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-bound-
              authorization/draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-
              approval.html>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-child-delegation]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission Child Delegation for OAuth 2.0",
              2026, <https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-bound-
              authorization/draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-child-
              delegation.html>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-containment]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission Containment for OAuth 2.0", 2026,
              <https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-bound-authorization/
              draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-containment.html>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-continuation]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission Continuation: Authorization
              Continuity for Mission-Bound Authorization", 2026,
              <https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-bound-authorization/
              draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-continuation.html>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-progressive]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission Progressive Authorization for
              OAuth 2.0", 2026, <https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-
              bound-authorization/draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-
              progressive.html>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-signals]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission Lifecycle Signals for OAuth 2.0",
              2026, <https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-bound-
              authorization/draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-
              signals.html>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-status]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission Status and Lifecycle for OAuth
              2.0", 2026, <https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-bound-
              authorization/draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-status.html>.

   [I-D.draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-template]
              McGuinness, K., "Mission Template for OAuth 2.0", 2026,
              <https://mcguinness.github.io/mission-bound-authorization/
              draft-mcguinness-oauth-mission-template.html>.

   [RFC8126]  Cotton, M., Leiba, B., and T. Narten, "Guidelines for
              Writing an IANA Considerations Section in RFCs", BCP 26,
              RFC 8126, DOI 10.17487/RFC8126, June 2017,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8126>.

   [RFC9470]  Bertocci, V. and B. Campbell, "OAuth 2.0 Step Up
              Authentication Challenge Protocol", RFC 9470,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9470, September 2023,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9470>.

   [RFC9562]  Davis, K., Peabody, B., and P. Leach, "Universally Unique
              IDentifiers (UUIDs)", RFC 9562, DOI 10.17487/RFC9562, May
              2024, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9562>.

Author's Address

   Karl McGuinness
   Independent
   Email: public@karlmcguinness.com
